{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1040{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f1\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0604020202020204}Arial;}
{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1{\*\panose 02070309020205020404}Courier New;}{\f3\froman\fcharset2\fprq2{\*\panose 05050102010706020507}Symbol;}{\f4\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times;}
{\f5\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0604020202020204}Helvetica;}{\f6\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}Courier;}{\f7\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}Geneva;}
{\f8\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}Tms Rmn;}{\f9\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}Helv;}{\f10\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}MS Serif;}
{\f11\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}MS Sans Serif;}{\f12\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}New York;}{\f13\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}System;}
{\f14\fnil\fcharset2\fprq2{\*\panose 05000000000000000000}Wingdings;}{\f15\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02050604050505020204}Bookman Old Style;}{\f16\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq3{\*\panose 020b0604030504040204}Tahoma;}
{\f17\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f18\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f20\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\f21\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}
{\f22\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}{\f23\fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Arial CE;}{\f24\fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 Arial Cyr;}{\f26\fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 Arial Greek;}{\f27\fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Arial Tur;}
{\f28\fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 Arial Baltic;}{\f29\fmodern\fcharset238\fprq1 Courier New CE;}{\f30\fmodern\fcharset204\fprq1 Courier New Cyr;}{\f32\fmodern\fcharset161\fprq1 Courier New Greek;}{\f33\fmodern\fcharset162\fprq1 Courier New Tur;}
{\f34\fmodern\fcharset186\fprq1 Courier New Baltic;}{\f107\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Bookman Old Style CE;}{\f108\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Bookman Old Style Cyr;}{\f110\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Bookman Old Style Greek;}
{\f111\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Bookman Old Style Tur;}{\f112\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Bookman Old Style Baltic;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;
\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{
\qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \f15\fs22\lang1040\cgrid \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \f1\fs20\lang1040\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext15 footnote text;}{\s16\qc\nowidctlpar\adjustright 
\fs16\lang1040\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext0 header;}{\*\cs17 \additive \f15\fs18 \sbasedon10 page number;}{\s18\qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs16\lang1040\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext18 footer;}{\*\cs19 \additive \v\fs18 \sbasedon10 annotation reference;}{
\s20\nowidctlpar\adjustright \f15\fs22\lang1040\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext20 annotation text;}{\*\cs21 \additive \f1\fs22\super \sbasedon10 footnote reference;}{\s22\qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \f2\fs20\lang1040\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext22 Plain Text;}}{\*\revtbl {Unknown;}}
{\info{\title The German Lieutenant}{\subject Filmscript}{\author Stanley Kubrick & Ricahrd Adams}{\doccomm Downloaded from\'0d\'0aC i n e F i l e\'0d\'0ahttp://www.cinefile.biz/}{\operator Alberto Cassani}{\creatim\yr2003\mo4\dy7\hr18\min34}
{\revtim\yr2003\mo4\dy7\hr18\min35}{\version4}{\edmins1}{\nofpages129}{\nofwords35875}{\nofchars204492}{\*\company Dark Star}{\nofcharsws251130}{\vern73}}\paperw11906\paperh16838\margl1152\margr1152\margt1417\margb1134 
\deftab567\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\hyphhotz283\formshade\viewkind1\viewscale100\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot \fet0\sectd \linex0\headery709\footery709\colsx709\endnhere\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2
\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \s22\qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright \f2\fs20\lang1040\cgrid {\lang1033 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par }\pard \s22\qc\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\b\scaps\fs48\lang1033 The German Lieutenant
\par }\pard \s22\qc\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\lang1033 
\par }\pard \s22\qc\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\lang1033 
\par A
\par 
\par Screenplay
\par 
\par by
\par 
\par Stanley Kubrick
\par 
\par &
\par 
\par Richard Adams
\par }\pard \s22\qj\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\lang1033 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par NOTE:  All German parts spoken with a German accent.
\par \page FADE IN:
\par 
\par DOCUMENTARY SEQUENCE - EXCERPTS FROM NAZI PROPAGANDA FILMS
\par AND NEWSREELS
\par 
\par Music background of Nazi marches and songs.  Narrator traces
\par blameless and invincible history of the Third Reich.
\par 
\par         a.  MASS RALLIES - THE FUEHRER GESTICULATES
\par 
\par         b.  CHAMBERLAIN AND HITLER - MUNICH
\par 
\par         c.  ANNEXATION OF AUSTRIA
\par 
\par         d.  GERMAN TROOPS IN VIENNA
\par 
\par         e.  INVASION OF POLAND
\par 
\par         f.  INVASION OF FRANCE
\par 
\par As the film nears the end, the CAMERA PULLS BACK.  A dozen
\par German officers are scattered in groups around a large day
\par room.
\par 
\par Their faces reflect a mixture of emotions.  Some seem lost in
\par a kind of dream-like reverie, as if to say, "Ah, yes, those
\par were the days."  Others appear mildly resentful.  A few are
\par plainly bored.  One dozes.
\par 
\par CLOSE - LT. KRAUS
\par 
\par A faint smile of mocking cynicism.
\par 
\par CLOSE - LT. DIETRICH
\par 
\par Deeply concentrated on film, troubled.
\par 
\par A meticulous corporal nurses the flickering 16mm projector,
\par as the film ends.  The lights snap on.
\par 
\par FAVORING LT. DIETRICH AND LT. KRAUS
\par 
\par We see a mask of non-committal indifference cover the
\par emotions seen in the dark.  They stretch and light
\par cigarettes.  As the projectionist changes the reel, there is
\par a low murmur of conversation around the room.
\par 
\par                      LT. KRAUS
\par                (turns around to
\par                 projectionist)
\par           What are we going to see tonight,
\par           Willy?
\par 
\par                      PROJECTIONIST
\par           "Romance on the Danube," sir.
\par 
\par                      LT. KRAUS
\par                (mock seriousness)
\par           But we've seen that seven
\par           times.  Why don't you get us a
\par           Betty Grable picture?
\par 
\par                      ANOTHER OFFICER
\par           Don't be so impatient, Oskar.
\par           That's all you'll be seeing pretty
\par           soon.
\par 
\par CLOSE - LT. DIETRICH
\par 
\par He pays no attention to conversation and seems depressed.
\par 
\par SHOT - GROUP
\par 
\par Murmur of officers' laughter.  A SERGEANT enters.  He salutes
\par in front of Lts. Dietrich and Kraus.
\par 
\par                      SERGEANT
\par           The car is ready, sir.
\par 
\par                      LT. KRAUS
\par           So soon?
\par                (rises with Lt. Dietrich)
\par           Well, gentlemen, I hope you have a
\par           splendid evening.
\par 
\par They exit as the romantic strains of the Blue Danube Waltz
\par rattle out of the projector.
\par 
\par                                              DISSOLVE TO:
\par 
\par EXT.  LONG SHOT OF BARRACKS - 10TH PARATROOPER REGIMENT - DAY
\par 
\par Before the war the buildings were a school.  They are
\par shuttered, two-story stone barracks in two rows along a brick
\par street.  In the playing fields behind the barracks are
\par parachute training apparatus.
\par 
\par At the end of the street is the headquarters building.  There
\par is a large Swastika over the door and a staff car and courier
\par bicycles parked outside.
\par 
\par SUPERIMPOSED TITLES:
\par 
\par            "HEADQUARTERS 10TH AIRBORNE REGIMENT"
\par 
\par They fade out -- then:
\par 
\par                 "THE LAST WEEKS OF THE WAR"
\par 
\par Lts. Dietrich and Kraus enter a camouflaged Volkswagen jeep
\par and are driven away.
\par 
\par                                              DISSOLVE TO:
\par 
\par MAIN TITLES
\par 
\par                                              DISSOLVE TO:
\par 
\par EXT.  LONG SHOT DOWN ROAD - DAY
\par 
\par Two wrecked trucks burn with an oily, yellow-black flame.
\par 
\par Along each shoulder of the road a column of infantry trudges
\par wearily toward the camera.  They carry their weapons slung
\par over their shoulders and their machine guns high across their
\par backs.
\par 
\par As the left hand column reaches the burning trucks, they
\par skirt out on the road to avoid the heat and then move back on
\par the shoulder.
\par 
\par A dot far down the road moves toward the camera.  As it
\par nears, it is seen to be the camouflaged jeep.
\par 
\par SLOW PAN - JEEP, TROOPS, BURNING TRUCKS
\par 
\par The driver is in front and Lieutenants Dietrich and Kraus are
\par in the back.  The troops pay no attention and do not look
\par either right or left.  Their heads are hunched on their
\par shoulders and steam rises in the cold air from their warm
\par bodies.  The driver eases the jeep past them.  The passengers
\par glance at the troops and the burning trucks and at two men
\par hanging from a tree.
\par 
\par SHOT - TWO DESERTERS HANGING FROM TREE
\par 
\par There are cardboard signs hanging across their chests
\par indicating their crime.
\par 
\par EXT.  ROAD - SHOT FOLLOWING THE JEEP - DAY
\par 
\par The road is elevated above wet fields on both sides.  The
\par driver slows as he nears a crowd of mixed soldiers and
\par civilians, many obviously refugees.  The jeep creeps along
\par until motioned to a halt by a black-uniformed SS SERGEANT
\par with a swastika armband.  The jeep stops right in front of
\par him.
\par 
\par DRIVER AND SERGEANT
\par 
\par                      SS SERGEANT
\par                (giving an order)
\par           Identification check.  Pull into
\par           line on the left.
\par 
\par The driver looks around to Lt. Dietrich.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           Sergeant...
\par 
\par                      SS SERGEANT
\par           Yes, Oberlieutenant!
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           We are overdue in Karlstadt already
\par           with these muddy roads.
\par 
\par                      SS SERGEANT
\par           You can move to the front of the
\par           line, sir.  The Captain can help
\par           you.
\par 
\par PAN SHOT - THE CHECKPOINT
\par 
\par An SS CAPTAIN is at the head of the column questioning each
\par person in turn.  Behind him two corporals with SMG'S lounge
\par idly against the fenders of the truck.
\par 
\par Herded into the back of the truck are about a dozen men in
\par uniform or civilian clothes.  They are dejected and scared.
\par 
\par On a signal from the captain, the corporals move in on a man,
\par search him and shove him on the back of the truck.
\par 
\par The captain waves up the next man just as the jeep eases up
\par to the front of the line.
\par 
\par The SS officer looks up with mild interest as Lt. Dietrich
\par gets out, but goes back to his questioning of a private.
\par 
\par Dietrich and Kraus light cigarettes and watch.
\par 
\par SHOT OF CHECKPOINT - FAVORING SS CAPTAIN AND SIGNALMAN
\par 
\par                      SS CAPTAIN
\par           Your papers.
\par 
\par                      SIGNALMAN
\par           Here they are, sir.  Private Erich
\par           Hovlund, 7746539, the 124th
\par           infantry.
\par 
\par                      SS CAPTAIN
\par           Where is your unit and why aren't
\par           you with them?
\par 
\par                      SIGNALMAN
\par                (without hesitation)
\par           I believe they're at Wurtzburg.  I'm
\par           trying to reach them.
\par 
\par                      SS CAPTAIN
\par           You believe?  Why haven't you
\par           reached them?  I see no leave
\par           authorization.
\par 
\par                      SIGNALMAN
\par           I lost the company last night near
\par           Gretsburg.  I took the wrong turn
\par           coming from filling my canteen and
\par           couldn't catch up in the dark.
\par 
\par                      SS CAPTAIN
\par           It must have been very dark.  You
\par           seem to have strayed off your course
\par           for Wurtzburg.  However...
\par                (tapping the papers)
\par           You seem right on course for your
\par           home in Koenigshofen.
\par 
\par                      SIGNALMAN
\par           No, sir.  I'm trying to get to
\par           Wurtzburg.
\par 
\par                      SS CAPTAIN
\par           Undoubtedly, but we'll hold you for
\par           the moment until we can check with
\par           your unit.
\par                (he turns toward the
\par                 truck)
\par           Corporal Hartl, put him in the
\par           truck.
\par 
\par VARIOUS SHOTS - ACTION SEQUENCE
\par 
\par As the corporal starts forward, the private suddenly jumps
\par back into the crowd and dodges back down the road.
\par 
\par The crowd stands quietly as he pushes them aside and knocks
\par one down in his hurry.
\par 
\par The two corporals race after him.  They cannot fire because
\par of the crowd.
\par 
\par The private jumps down the embankment to avoid the sergeant
\par heading him off.
\par 
\par He starts across a muddy field towards a small woods.
\par 
\par The machine gunner on the truck snaps his bolt several times
\par and the ejected rounds clatter on the truck roof in the
\par silence.
\par 
\par Many of the crowd squat down.  The gunner pauses what seems a
\par long time as the private rushes desperately for the woods.
\par 
\par He has almost made it when the gunner squeezes off a long
\par burst which follows the man slowly at first, then catches up,
\par holds him a long moment and stops abruptly.  The last rounds
\par crash loudly in the woods as the man skids in the mud on his
\par face and lies still.
\par 
\par VARIOUS SHOTS OF THE CROWD
\par 
\par The crowd watches the dead body in silence.  They get back to
\par their feet.  Several shuffles back to the rear of the line.
\par 
\par SS CAPTAIN AND LIEUTENANTS DIETRICH AND KRAUS
\par 
\par                      SS CAPTAIN
\par                (gesturing to his men)
\par           Keep them in line back there.  And
\par           get the body.
\par 
\par                      LT. KRAUS
\par                (unemotionally)
\par           Sad but stupid.  He didn't weigh the
\par           chances.  A man can't outrun a
\par           machine gun.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par                (depressed indifference)
\par           He was obviously a deserter or else
\par           he wouldn't have run.
\par 
\par                      SS CAPTAIN
\par                (approaching)
\par           Yes, Oberlieutenant.  You wish to
\par           pass through.
\par 
\par LONG SHOT - MUDDY FIELD
\par 
\par The two corporals are splashing across the muddy field for
\par the body of the dead man.
\par 
\par THREE SHOT
\par 
\par Dietrich watches.
\par 
\par                      LT. KRAUS
\par                (with slight irony)
\par           You have an exciting job here,
\par           Captain.
\par 
\par The corporals have reached the body and are dragging it back.
\par 
\par                      SS CAPTAIN
\par                (following his gaze)
\par           Yes.  That is regrettable.  But they
\par           think the war is over.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           Yes, we wish clearance.  These muddy
\par           roads are making us late in
\par           Karlstadt.
\par 
\par                      SS CAPTAIN
\par           What is the nature of your business
\par           in Karlstadt?
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           Of a personal nature, sir.
\par 
\par                      SS CAPTAIN
\par           I'm sorry but I must have a more
\par           explicit answer.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           We are going to visit the wife of a
\par           comrade, sir.
\par 
\par                      SS CAPTAIN
\par                (dirty laugh)
\par           Nothing to be ashamed of,
\par           lieutenant!  We all need a little
\par           relaxation now and then.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par                (coldly)
\par           Do you wish to see our papers, sir?
\par 
\par Dietrich and Kraus exchange glances while the papers are
\par scrutinized.
\par 
\par                      SS CAPTAIN
\par           These are in order.  I am sorry to
\par           have detained you, lieutenant.
\par 
\par They exchange salutes and drive off in the jeep.
\par 
\par                                              DISSOLVE TO:
\par 
\par STREET IN KARLSTADT - LONG SHOT - DAY
\par 
\par Complete ruin.  Half shells of houses still standing.  The
\par street is plaster dust, broken glass and rubble.
\par 
\par Two boys are throwing stones at the house while a younger
\par girl sits on the curb watching and shouting comments at them.
\par 
\par The jeep noses around the corner and haltingly moves through
\par the rubble in low gear.
\par 
\par SHOT - JEEP AND CHILDREN
\par 
\par The jeep pulls up and Kraus and Dietrich get out, slamming
\par the doors.  The children have been watching them in silence
\par all this time.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par                (to the children)
\par           Do any of you know where
\par           Elizabethstrasse 14 is?
\par 
\par                      1ST BOY
\par                (he points)
\par           That's it right in front of you.
\par 
\par Dietrich looks at the house which is a burned-out hulk with
\par the top floor completely gone.  He starts to climb over the
\par rubble to go in.
\par 
\par                      2ND BOY
\par           Nobody is home.  I wouldn't go in,
\par           sir.
\par 
\par                      LITTLE GIRL
\par                (importantly)
\par           I went in looking for Pauli and they
\par           bit me.  The rats.  Two big ones.
\par 
\par She sticks out her leg.  The bites are wrapped in a dirty
\par cloth.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par                (gently)
\par           Do you know where Frau Koenig has
\par           gone?  She used to live here.
\par 
\par The children shake their heads.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           She was tall and dark.
\par 
\par The children look dumbly at each other.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           She had a boy, Klaus -- about your
\par           age.
\par 
\par One of the boys throws quickly at a rat in the rubble.
\par 
\par                      2ND BOY
\par           Did you see him, Hans?  I almost got
\par           him.
\par 
\par                      1ST BOY
\par                (suddenly remembering)
\par           Yes, sir, I remember her!  She is
\par           safe but I don't know where she
\par           lives now.  We're the only ones left
\par           on this street after last week's
\par           raid.
\par 
\par His concern for Frau Koenig satisfied, he allows the
\par depressing condition of the children to penetrate fully.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           Can I give you some money?
\par 
\par                      1ST BOY
\par                (politely)
\par           No thank you, sir.  No one wants it
\par           around here.
\par                (notices package under
\par                 Dietrich's arm)
\par           Have you got any vodka?
\par 
\par                      LT. KRAUS
\par           You can't be over ten.  You don't
\par           drink it?
\par 
\par                      1ST BOY
\par           Sometimes, sir.  But mostly we trade
\par           it for food.  The soldiers like it.
\par 
\par                      LITTLE GIRL
\par           We used to get turnips at the
\par           hospital but the sisters went away.
\par 
\par Dietrich hands the boy the bottle wrapped in paper.
\par 
\par                      1ST BOY
\par           Thank you, sir.
\par 
\par                      LT. KRAUS
\par           That's the best Yugoslavian
\par           slivowitz.  Make sure they give you
\par           a lot of food for it.
\par                (he musses the little
\par                 boy's hair)
\par           Let's go.
\par 
\par                      1ST BOY
\par           Thank you, sir.  Heil Hitler, sir!
\par 
\par Dietrich turns back, pauses, then nods vacantly to the boy.
\par 
\par LIEUTENANTS DIETRICH AND KRAUS - FOLLOW SHOT
\par 
\par as they walk slowly back to jeep parked some distance away.
\par 
\par                      LT. KRAUS
\par                (trying to cheer up
\par                 friend)
\par           They'll be all right.  Children
\par           always land on their feet and
\par           forget.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           Yes, I suppose so.
\par 
\par                      LT. KRAUS
\par           Come... come... Paul.  We need a
\par           drink.  What do you say?
\par                (no reply)
\par           We'll go to the Cafe Wein and maybe
\par           we find out where Anna is.
\par 
\par                                              DISSOLVE TO:
\par 
\par EXT.  LONG SHOT, STREET PARTIALLY DAMAGED BY BOMBS - DUSK
\par 
\par Dietrich and Kraus get out of the jeep.  Dietrich pulls out
\par his satchel.  He points out where he wants the driver to
\par wait.
\par 
\par MEDIUM SHOT - DIETRICH AND KRAUS
\par 
\par They start down the stairs into a basement cafe.  A LUFTWAFFE
\par LIEUTENANT stumbles up the stairs, drunk.  He bumps into
\par Dietrich, slips to one knee.  Dietrich pulls him up roughly.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par                (brusquely)
\par           You are drunk, Lieutenant.  Your
\par           uniform is filthy.  I suggest you go
\par           back inside and get yourself cleaned
\par           up.
\par 
\par                      LUFTWAFFE LT.
\par                (jerking away)
\par           Your pretty uniform may impress the
\par           girls but uniforms are going out of
\par           style quicker than German heroes.
\par                (staggers up the sidewalk)
\par           Drunkenness is in style, Herr
\par           Oberlieutenant.  And your fine
\par           medals, will they get you a high
\par           position in the coming Fourth Reich?
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           Lieutenant, you are making a fool
\par           out of yourself.
\par 
\par                      LUFTWAFFE LT.
\par                (salutes drunkenly)
\par           Go straight to hell, Herr
\par           Oberlieutenant!
\par 
\par During this exchange the driver has come up.
\par 
\par                      JEEP DRIVER
\par                (to Dietrich)
\par           Shall I have him placed under
\par           arrest, sir?
\par 
\par CLOSE - DIETRICH
\par 
\par He is greatly agitated and obviously upset.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           No, let him go.
\par                (emotionally indignant)
\par           Disgusting to see an officer make
\par           such a fool of himself.
\par 
\par                      LT. KRAUS
\par           You're right -- but he is drunk.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           That is no excuse.
\par                (spoken with child-like
\par                 conviction)
\par           He should know that the uniform is
\par           nothing but what the man inside
\par           brings to it.
\par 
\par                      LT. KRAUS
\par           Of course, Paul.  Let's go inside.
\par 
\par They enter the cafe.
\par 
\par INT.  CAFE - VARIOUS SHOTS OF THE CAFE - EVENING
\par 
\par Smoke, noise, singing, music and laughter.  Several men are
\par already passed out on the floor, their heads resting on their
\par arms.
\par 
\par PAGE MISSING
\par 
\par She kisses Kraus passionately and laughs.  Kraus won't let
\par her go.  She makes a mock protest and kisses him again.
\par 
\par                      LT. KRAUS
\par                (as if incredulous at her
\par                 passion)
\par           What have you been drinking?
\par 
\par They sit.
\par 
\par                      LISE
\par                (hysterically cheerful)
\par           Everything, and plenty of it.  But
\par           that's not why I'm so happy.  Four
\par           days without a bombing.  And a
\par           Colonel told me the Americans are so
\par           close there won't be any more.
\par 
\par                      LT. KRAUS
\par           Aha!  I knew there was a master plan
\par           behind our retreat.
\par 
\par Lise laughs, then screws her face into a thoughtful pose.
\par She rests her chin in her hand.
\par 
\par                      LISE
\par           How close are they?
\par 
\par                      LT. KRAUS
\par                (very serious)
\par           I don't know exactly but I heard
\par           they captured an American officer
\par           outside the Cafe, yesterday.  He was
\par           nailing up a sign saying, "Off
\par           Limits."
\par 
\par                      LISE
\par           How can you tease about such things,
\par           Oskar?
\par 
\par                      LT. KRAUS
\par           Who's teasing?
\par 
\par                      LISE
\par           You may joke all you like but I
\par           think we're in for a hard time.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par                (sullenly)
\par           You have nothing to worry about.
\par           Your talents will never go
\par           unappreciated.
\par 
\par Stops angrily, her mood changes to icy dislike.
\par 
\par                      LISE
\par           Well, well... the high and mighty
\par           Oberlieutenant Dietrich is finally
\par           joining the party.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           One never likes to interrupt such
\par           witty and brilliant conversation.
\par 
\par                      LISE
\par           We will see just how high and mighty
\par           Herr Oberlieutenant is when the
\par           Americans get here.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par                (flushing anger)
\par           Just what did you mean by that
\par           remark?
\par 
\par                      LISE
\par           Nothing, just wondering whether you
\par           plan to sell apples or sweep the
\par           streets?
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par                (rises to leave)
\par           Go to hell you ignorant little
\par           whore.
\par 
\par                      LT. KRAUS
\par                (grabs Dietrich's arm)
\par           Come, come, children.  We are here
\par           to have a good time.  Let's not
\par           spoil everything.
\par 
\par CLOSE - LT. DIETRICH
\par 
\par Eyes downcast, his anger changes into self-disgust.
\par 
\par CLOSE - LISE
\par 
\par Regains her composure and realizes how deeply she has hurt
\par Dietrich's pride.  Brushing back her hair with a careless
\par gesture, she smiles.
\par 
\par                      LISE
\par           I apologize, Paul.  It's just that
\par           you made me angry with that remark
\par           about...
\par 
\par                      LT. KRAUS
\par                (interrupts)
\par           Certainly... all just a big
\par           misunderstanding.  Everyone's
\par           friends again.  Nobody's angry.
\par           Come on, Paul, sit down.
\par 
\par They all sit again.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           I'm sorry, Lise.
\par 
\par                      LISE
\par           Oh, forget it.  Nothing lost.
\par 
\par                      LT. KRAUS
\par           I propose a toast.  To the three of
\par           us, Paul Dietrich, Lise and Oskar
\par           Kraus, three who have survived
\par           twelve years of madness, each in
\par           their own way!!
\par 
\par                      LISE
\par           I'll drink to that!
\par 
\par All drink.  They all appear to have a few moments of private
\par thought.  Then Lise leans forward to Kraus, confidentially.
\par 
\par                      LISE
\par                (nostalgically)
\par           It's really lost, isn't it?
\par 
\par                      LT. KRAUS
\par                (smiles)
\par           Of course!  And you can thank heaven
\par           for that.
\par 
\par                      LISE
\par           How long until the end?
\par 
\par                      LT. KRAUS
\par           A week, maybe two at the most.  If
\par           it isn't over by then, it will be
\par           the Americans against the Russians.
\par 
\par                      LISE
\par                (a bit drunkenly)
\par           It's hard to believe it's really
\par           over.  I was just a kid when it
\par           started.  We were all just kids.
\par                (sudden change of tone)
\par           You know what I look forward to most
\par           is soap.  Soap and hot water.
\par           Scalding hot water and soap.
\par 
\par                      LT. KRAUS
\par                (pseudo-Valentino)
\par           You don't have to wait until then.
\par           I have some soap and some matches.
\par           Let's go to your place and I'll give
\par           you a bath.
\par 
\par                      LISE
\par                (laughs and kisses him)
\par           I'll think about that offer but
\par           right now how would you like to
\par           dance?
\par 
\par                      LT. KRAUS
\par           At your service, madame.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           Before you two love birds disappear,
\par           I want to ask Lise if she knows
\par           where Anna is.
\par 
\par                      LISE
\par           Anna Koenig?
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           Yes.
\par 
\par                      LISE
\par           She was in here just yesterday
\par           looking for a place.  She was bombed
\par           out.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           Yes, I know.  Do you know where she
\par           is now?
\par 
\par                      LISE
\par                (frowning to aid her
\par                 memory)
\par           Yes, I think I remember.  She took a
\par           room from one of the girls.
\par           Kirchenstrasse... yes,
\par           Kirchenstrasse!  Number... twenty-
\par           seven.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           Kirchenstrasse, twenty-seven.
\par 
\par                      LISE
\par           That's it.
\par 
\par                      LT. KRAUS
\par           I'll come with you, Paul.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           No, please... I'd rather go myself.
\par                (forces a grin)
\par           Besides, Lise could use a good bath.
\par 
\par                      LISE
\par                (concerned)
\par           Has something happened?
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           Her husband was reported killed
\par           yesterday.  I have to break the news
\par           to her.
\par                (a few seconds pass)
\par           Well, perhaps I'll see you all
\par           later.
\par 
\par He exits.  A man in civilian clothes (GESTAPO AGENT) stands
\par up at the next table and follows him outside.
\par 
\par EXT.  STAIRS TO CAFE AND STREET - NIGHT
\par 
\par There is a mist in the air.  Dietrich stops at the head of
\par the stairs and takes a deep breath.  The man in civilian
\par clothes appears behind him in the doorway.
\par 
\par                      GESTAPO AGENT
\par           One moment, please, Lieutenant.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           Yes, what can I do for you?
\par 
\par He notices a drawn Luger in the man's hand.
\par 
\par                      GESTAPO AGENT
\par                (flashing card)
\par           You are under arrest for being a
\par           party to treasonous propaganda and
\par           making defeatist and disloyal
\par           statements.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           You must be joking.
\par 
\par                      GESTAPO AGENT
\par           I assure you I'm not.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           But then this is completely
\par           ridiculous.
\par 
\par                      GESTAPO AGENT
\par           What is the name of your friend
\par           inside?
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           What do you want that for?
\par 
\par                      GESTAPO AGENT
\par           Be kind enough to answer my
\par           question.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           I don't know who you mean.
\par 
\par                      GESTAPO AGENT
\par           The officer you were seated with.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           I'm afraid I don't know him.  I was
\par           just sharing a table.
\par 
\par                      GESTAPO AGENT
\par           And the girl?
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           She's with him.
\par 
\par                      GESTAPO AGENT
\par           You have a rare wit, Herr
\par           Oberlieutenant.  We shall see how it
\par           holds up at headquarters.  Start
\par           walking to the corner, if you
\par           please.
\par 
\par VARIOUS QUICK CUTS
\par 
\par The agent has laid one hand on Dietrich's arm.  Suddenly
\par Dietrich stomps heavily backwards on the agent's foot and
\par ankle hurting him painfully and throwing him backwards.
\par 
\par Turning swiftly, Dietrich pounds a vicious, closed-fist, judo
\par chop into the side of the agent's neck.  Stunned, he drops
\par heavily to his hands and knees.
\par 
\par Dietrich gives him a brutal kick in the jaw with his boot,
\par tumbling the agent over on his back in collapse.
\par 
\par CLOSE - DIETRICH
\par 
\par Dietrich gets up.  His mouth is open and he pants loudly from
\par the adrenalin, fear and exertion.  His face is in a sweat.
\par He looks quickly around.  Dietrich pulls the agent to the
\par curb and tumbles him under a truck with a push of his boot.
\par 
\par EXT.  NIGHT - JEEP PARKED IN AN ALLEY
\par 
\par His jeep is parked in a deserted alley just off a main
\par street.  Opening the front door, Dietrich finds the driver
\par lying on the front seat, wrapped in a blanket and asleep.  He
\par shakes him.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           Wake up, Soderbaum.  Come on, wake
\par           up.
\par 
\par Soderbaum gets up with a start.  It takes his eyes a few
\par seconds to focus.  Seeing Dietrich, he slides over behind the
\par wheel, the blanket still around his shoulders.  Dietrich gets
\par in.  Soderbaum tries twice before getting the cold motor to
\par turn over.
\par 
\par INT.  FRONT OF JEEP - DRIVER AND DIETRICH
\par 
\par                      DRIVER
\par                (as jeep rolls out of the
\par                 alley)
\par           Back to the barracks, sir?
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           No, I still must visit Frau Koenig.
\par           She is living at Kirchenstrasse
\par           twenty-seven.  That's off the
\par           Hitterstrasse.
\par 
\par                                              DISSOLVE TO:
\par 
\par EXT.  NIGHT - STREET OF PARTLY-DAMAGED HOUSES
\par 
\par The jeep pulls to a stop in front of one of the houses.
\par Dietrich gets out.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           Wait for me.  I'll only be a few
\par           minutes.
\par 
\par INT.  HALLWAY AND STAIRS - NIGHT
\par 
\par The hallway is lit by one light bulb hanging on an extension
\par cord from a chandelier.  Trash, dirt and broken plaster are
\par everywhere.  Dietrich looks at the directory on the wall.  It
\par is obviously out of date, but written on the wall in lipstick
\par with an arrow pointing to apartment 7 is the name "Koenig."
\par He starts up the stairs.  The rail is broken off.
\par 
\par INT.  LANDING - NIGHT
\par 
\par Dietrich looks closely at one door in the dim light and then
\par at the other.  On the second he sees the impression of the
\par number 7 in the chipped paint.  He knocks on the door.  He
\par waits a moment and knocks again.  From within a woman's
\par voice.
\par 
\par                      WOMAN'S VOICE (O.S.)
\par           Just a moment.  Who is it?
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           It's Paul... Paul Dietrich.
\par 
\par The door opens.  ANNA is a strikingly attractive woman in her
\par thirties.  Her full but slender figure is revealed under a
\par turtle-neck sweater and skirt.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           Good evening, Anna.
\par 
\par                      ANNA
\par           Paul, come in... come in!
\par 
\par INT.  ANNA'S APARTMENT
\par 
\par The apartment is shabby with broken furniture, cracked
\par plaster and a single lamp.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           It's so nice to see you again.
\par 
\par                      ANNA
\par           Would you like to keep on your coat.
\par           There hasn't been any heat.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par                (taking coat off)
\par           That's perfectly all right.  I am
\par           quite comfortable.
\par 
\par                      ANNA
\par           Please sit down.
\par 
\par There is only a couch.  They both sit.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           You're looking very well, Anna.
\par 
\par                      ANNA
\par           I'm afraid that's not true.  But I'm
\par           lucky to have a roof over my head.
\par 
\par Several moments of awkward silence.
\par 
\par                      ANNA
\par           How did you happen to find me here?
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           One of the girls at the Cantina told
\par           me.
\par 
\par More awkward moments.
\par 
\par                      ANNA
\par           Which girl?
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           Oh, little Lise.
\par 
\par                      ANNA
\par           Yes!  I know her.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           You were bombed out.
\par 
\par                      ANNA
\par           Yes, fortunately it was a daylight
\par           raid and we weren't home.  I was
\par           taking little Klaus to the doctor.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           How is little Klaus?
\par 
\par                      ANNA
\par           He is much better now but he had a
\par           terrible cough.  It kept him awake
\par           at night for a week.  You know how
\par           hard it is to get any medicine or
\par           find a doctor.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           Where is he now?
\par 
\par                      ANNA
\par           He is sleeping in the other room.
\par           Would you like to see him?
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           If it won't wake him up.
\par 
\par FOLLOW SHOT - ANNA AND DIETRICH
\par 
\par                      ANNA
\par           Nothing wakes him!  He sleeps
\par           through the bombings.
\par 
\par He follows her into the next room.
\par 
\par CLOSE - SICKLY BOY OF EIGHT
\par 
\par He is sleeping in the middle of a large, bare mattress placed
\par on the floor.  No other furniture is in the room.  A wooden
\par crate and some sheets of newspaper complete the decor.
\par 
\par FOLLOW SHOT
\par 
\par They watch him sleep, then exit.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           He's a wonderful boy.
\par 
\par                      ANNA
\par           Yes, and so much like his father.
\par 
\par Some awkward beats.  Dietrich sits down again.  Silence.
\par Anna folds her hands in her lap and smiles.
\par 
\par                      ANNA
\par           Why have you been such a stranger
\par           lately?
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           My duties at the base have kept me
\par           very busy.
\par 
\par                      ANNA
\par           You and Klaus are such good friends.
\par           We talk of you often.
\par 
\par CLOSE - DIETRICH
\par 
\par He tries to find an approach to the subject.
\par 
\par CLOSE - ANNA
\par 
\par She adjusts herself with great composure.  Starts to speak,
\par then stops.  Thinks a moment and folds her hands.
\par 
\par                      ANNA
\par                (matter of factly)
\par           You are here because of Klaus,
\par           aren't you?  Something has happened.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par                (haltingly)
\par           Yes, he is dead.  I'm sorry, Anna.
\par           I should have been more direct.
\par 
\par                      ANNA
\par           It was not difficult to guess the
\par           purpose of a visit at this hour.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           I am terribly sorry, Anna.  You have
\par           my greatest sympathy.
\par 
\par                      ANNA
\par           Yes, it's tragic.  But I've been
\par           expecting the news ever since he
\par           left five days ago.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           Then you were prepared?
\par 
\par                      ANNA
\par           Yes, one must.  In these times one
\par           must be prepared for anything.
\par 
\par As she speaks the last lines she accidentally knocks some
\par change off a table.  As she bends to pick up the scattered
\par pfennigs, she begins to cry.  Gently at first, then in great
\par wracking sobs.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           I know what Klaus must have meant to
\par           you.
\par 
\par                      ANNA
\par                (crying)
\par           Klaus dead... I almost can't believe
\par           it.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           You must remember, he was a brave
\par           man he died defending the
\par           Fatherland.
\par 
\par                      ANNA
\par           The Fatherland!  What does it matter
\par           now?  Klaus is dead.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           In these times such men don't live
\par           to an old age.
\par 
\par                      ANNA
\par           But what will I do now?  What will I
\par           do without him?
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           Anna... you must listen to me.  I am
\par           proud of Klaus and you should be
\par           too.  Death is not such a tragedy.
\par           We will all be dead.  A few years
\par           more or less should not be that
\par           important.  What is important is
\par           that he died honorably.
\par 
\par                      ANNA
\par           That's easy for you to say.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           I don't expect you to understand now
\par           but someday you will.
\par 
\par Anna gets a handkerchief and blows her nose.
\par 
\par                      ANNA
\par                (sniffling)
\par           Someday.  That's the day we all wait
\par           for.  Let's have a drink.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           I'd like to, but I'm afraid I must
\par           be leaving.  If there's anything I
\par           can do --
\par 
\par CLOSE - ANNA
\par 
\par She smiles ruefully.
\par 
\par                      ANNA
\par           I wish you wouldn't leave just yet.
\par 
\par CLOSE - LT. DIETRICH
\par 
\par Thinks for a moment.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           Well, I guess I can stay for a
\par           while.
\par 
\par TWO SHOT
\par 
\par He sits down and watches her walk across the room to get the
\par bottle.
\par 
\par                      ANNA
\par           I have some Steinhager left.  Is
\par           that all right?
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           Excellent.
\par 
\par                      ANNA
\par           Water?
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           Nothing, thanks.
\par 
\par                      ANNA
\par           That's the way I like it too.
\par 
\par She returns with two water glasses and the bottle and sits
\par down beside him.  She pours the Steinhager carefully.  They
\par both touch glasses.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           To the memory of Klaus.
\par 
\par They both toss the drinks down.  Anna utters a little
\par contented sigh as the drink warms her.
\par 
\par                      ANNA
\par           At least you are one of the lucky
\par           ones.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par                (gloomily)
\par           Yes, I am one of the lucky ones.
\par 
\par A few seconds pass.
\par 
\par                      ANNA
\par                (after a pause)
\par           Another drink!
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par                (kindly)
\par           Thank you, but I think I really
\par           ought to be going.
\par 
\par                      ANNA
\par           Oh, please.  Just one more.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par                (smiling)
\par           All right.
\par 
\par She pours two more.  She holds out her glass.
\par 
\par                      ANNA
\par                (ironically)
\par           To the future.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par                (dismally)
\par           To the future.
\par 
\par They both toss the rather large drinks down in a single
\par motion.  She utters another warm sigh.
\par 
\par                      ANNA
\par           Talk to me about something.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           What would you like to talk about.
\par 
\par                      ANNA
\par           Oh, I don't know.  Tell me a funny
\par           story.
\par 
\par He thinks, frowns and gives up.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           I'm afraid I have a very poor memory
\par           for jokes.
\par 
\par                      ANNA
\par           It doesn't matter!  Let's have
\par           another drink.
\par 
\par She starts to pour and he puts his hand over the glass.
\par 
\par                      ANNA
\par           Oh, don't be so stiff!  Take your
\par           hand away.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par                (gently)
\par           This must be the last one.  My
\par           driver is sitting outside in the
\par           cold.
\par 
\par                      ANNA
\par           Well, send him away.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           Then how will I get back to the
\par           base?
\par 
\par                      ANNA
\par           You can take the bus.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           It doesn't run at night.
\par 
\par                      ANNA
\par           Then you can take it in the morning.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par                (laughs)
\par           Oh, that's impossible.  I have no
\par           place to spend the night in town.
\par 
\par                      ANNA
\par                (as if it were perfectly
\par                 obvious)
\par           But you can spend it here if you
\par           like.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par                (quizzical smile)
\par           I couldn't very well do that.
\par 
\par                      ANNA
\par                (matter of fact)
\par           I don't know why.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par                (awkwardly)
\par           No, it wouldn't be right.
\par 
\par                      ANNA
\par           Of course you could.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par                (smiles)
\par           No, that's impossible.
\par 
\par                      ANNA
\par                (snaps on a battered
\par                 phonograph)
\par           Before you go then, one dance.  And
\par           no excuses!
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par                (listens to the
\par                 sentimental tune)
\par           All right.
\par 
\par He takes her in his arms and they begin to dance.  He holds
\par her lightly and at a respectful distance.  The music plays.
\par The smell of her perfume seems to disturb him.  He holds
\par holds her further apart.
\par 
\par                      ANNA
\par                (smiles)
\par           You don't have to be afraid.  I
\par           won't break.
\par 
\par Lt. Dietrich holds her closer.  She comes closer still.
\par 
\par                      ANNA
\par           That song brings back a lot of
\par           memories.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           Yes, funny how music can do that to
\par           you.
\par 
\par They dance, each absorbed in their own thoughts.
\par 
\par                      ANNA
\par           You must think I'm a terrible
\par           person.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           Don't be silly.
\par 
\par                      ANNA
\par                (the drinks make her speak
\par                 with extra care)
\par           You do.  I know that.  But then
\par           there's so much about Klaus and
\par           myself you don't know anything
\par           about.
\par 
\par She stops dancing and gives him a significant look.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par                (surprised)
\par           Well... yes... I suppose there is.
\par 
\par                      ANNA
\par                (laughs ironically)
\par           You'd really be surprised if you
\par           knew.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           I suppose every marriage has its
\par           secrets.
\par 
\par They start dancing again.  Then Anna suddenly embraces Paul,
\par her face up to his.
\par 
\par                      ANNA
\par           Paul, I want you to make love to me.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           What?
\par 
\par                      ANNA
\par           I want you to make love to me.  I
\par           want to feel a man in my arms.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           You must be drunk.
\par 
\par                      ANNA
\par           Oh, do you think a couple of drinks
\par           has loosened me up?  Paul, take me
\par           in your arms and do anything you
\par           want.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           If you're not drunk, you must be
\par           insane.
\par 
\par                      ANNA
\par           What's the matter.  You like women
\par           don't you?
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           That has nothing to do with it.
\par 
\par                      ANNA
\par           I think it has everything to do with
\par           it.  I like men and you like women.
\par           The rest is rather simple, don't you
\par           think?
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           Don't be disgusting.  You know what
\par           I mean.
\par 
\par                      ANNA
\par           You mean we must respect the dead?
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           If you enjoy putting it that way.
\par 
\par                      ANNA
\par           I'd much rather have you take pity
\par           on a poor widow.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           Anna!
\par 
\par                      ANNA
\par           Shall I tell you a secret?
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           I've had fifty men better than you
\par           this year.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           Are you proud of that?
\par 
\par                      ANNA
\par           I'm not ashamed of it.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           Did Klaus know?
\par 
\par                      ANNA
\par           I was unfaithful, but I wasn't
\par           cruel.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           He never suspected?
\par 
\par                      ANNA
\par           I made him completely happy.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           You're disgusting.
\par 
\par                      ANNA
\par                (shouts)
\par           You don't have the right to be so
\par           smug.  I have brought much more
\par           happiness to the world than all you
\par           little tin soldier boys playing at
\par           being heroes.
\par 
\par Dietrich slaps her heavily in the face and she loses her
\par balance, tripping backward over a lamp.
\par 
\par                      ANNA
\par                (holding her face)
\par           Ha, ha, ha, ha... you've proven your
\par           manhood.  Bravo, you men are all the
\par           same.
\par 
\par Dietrich stands stunned and amazed.  He walks slowly back to
\par Anna and helps her to her feet.  She brushes her hair back
\par and laughs.
\par 
\par                      ANNA
\par           Now, come to bed!
\par 
\par CLOSE - DIETRICH
\par 
\par He stands perfectly still and has a strange look of
\par helplessness.
\par 
\par                                                 FADE OUT.
\par 
\par FADE IN:
\par 
\par EXT.  LONG SHOT OF 10TH PARATROOPER REGIMENT BARRACKS - DAWN
\par 
\par INT.  COL. VON SPERLING'S OFFICE - DAWN
\par 
\par The office is very severe.  On one wall is a blackboard.  On
\par a second is a map rack.
\par 
\par Behind the colonel's plain desk are two framed pictures; one
\par of Gen. Kurt von Student, the other of Gen. Gerd von
\par Rundstedt.
\par 
\par In the room are the colonel's adjutant, MAJOR GOSSWALD: his
\par executive, LIEUTENANT COLONEL PRAEGER; his operations
\par officer, MAJOR VON BREDOW; CAPTAIN ABTMEYER, Lt. Kraus and
\par Lt. Dietrich.  They are seated or standing around a table.
\par 
\par There is a knock on the door and a guard hands a pitcher of
\par steaming coffee to Major Gosswald.
\par 
\par SHOT - FAVORING DIETRICH
\par 
\par Dietrich crosses over to Captain Abtmeyer, a haggard, puffy-
\par looking, giant of a man.  They exchange friendly, ironic
\par glances.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par                (under his breath)
\par           What do you think this is all about?
\par 
\par                      CAPT. ABTMEYER
\par                (as if it is common
\par                 knowledge)
\par           They are going to pull us back.
\par           They say the front is getting too
\par           close.
\par 
\par Dietrich looks down, disgruntled.  Captain Abtmeyer offers
\par him a cigarette.
\par 
\par SHOT - COLONEL VON SPERLING
\par 
\par The door is opened by a guard and COLONEL VON SPERLING
\par briskly strides into the room.  He is a wiry, tall man in his
\par fifties.  Closed-cropped hair and the usual dueling scar.
\par Everyone snaps to attention.
\par 
\par                      COLONEL VON SPERLING
\par           Please remain as you were,
\par           gentlemen.
\par 
\par There is a momentary reshuffling of positions.
\par 
\par                      COL. VON SPERLING
\par           I don't think it is necessary to go
\par           into detail about the present
\par           situation on the West Front.  The
\par           Fuehrer has promised us victory and
\par           we all have, I'm certain, the
\par           fullest confidence in the wisdom of
\par           his efforts.
\par 
\par CLOSE - LT. DIETRICH
\par 
\par His attention wanders as Col. von Sperling begins.  He has
\par heard these morale speeches many times before.
\par 
\par                      COL. VON SPERLING
\par           Three days ago, in the retreat from
\par           Obernburg, an important railway
\par           bridge spanning the Main River was
\par           ordered destroyed.  Our engineers
\par           did not have sufficient time and the
\par           bridge was captured by the
\par           Americans.  They are pouring
\par           supplies and motorized units across
\par           the bridge 24 hours a day.
\par                (pauses for emphasis)
\par           We have received the order to
\par           destroy that bridge.
\par 
\par VARIOUS QUICK SHOTS AROUND THE ROOM
\par 
\par Everyone seems mildly stunned.  The downcast eyes and
\par skeptical expressions tell the rest.
\par 
\par CLOSE - KRAUS
\par 
\par He looks as if the death sentence had just been pronounced.
\par He looks at Dietrich, incredulously.
\par 
\par CLOSE - DIETRICH
\par 
\par He is the exception.  As the details of the mission are
\par expounded, he appears to come to life for the first time.
\par Until now he has appeared mildly depressed with everything
\par and everybody.  His face takes on a new vigor and intensity.
\par He listens closely.
\par 
\par SHOT - INCLUDING ALL
\par 
\par                      COL. VON SPERLING
\par           We got the order in about midnight.
\par           I had you aroused as soon as von
\par           Bredow had worked out the details.
\par                (he pauses and drinks)
\par           We drop a special force of 50 men
\par           tonight by parachute.  Captain
\par           Abtmeyer, you will lead the mission.
\par 
\par There is another pause.  Everyone is expecting Capt.
\par Abtmeyer to ask some pertinent questions on the raid.
\par 
\par                      CAPT. ABTMEYER
\par                (explosively)
\par           Sir, if I can speak my mind?
\par 
\par                      COL. VON SPERLING
\par           Certainly, Captain.
\par 
\par                      CAPT. ABTMEYER
\par           This mission is suicidal and futile.
\par           Not only will it drop the group
\par           almost in the middle of the American
\par           Third Army but for absolutely no
\par           purpose.
\par 
\par                      COL. VON SPERLING
\par           Yes, go on, Captain.
\par 
\par                      CAPT. ABTMEYER
\par           It surely can't have escaped you,
\par           sir, that the war is no more than
\par           weeks from ending.  I can only
\par           consider this mission a tragic joke
\par           that will kill off my entire group.
\par 
\par There is a significant silence.  The members of the colonel's
\par staff pay strict attention to their coffee cups.
\par 
\par                      COL. VON SPERLING
\par                (slowly)
\par           Captain, I do not doubt your
\par           courage.  You have proven it many
\par           times before.  However, I want you
\par           to consider carefully what I say.
\par                (pauses briefly)
\par           This mission was ordered by our
\par           superior headquarters; I make no
\par           value judgments on orders I receive.
\par           I see that they are carried out to
\par           the best of my ability and the full
\par           resources of my command.
\par                (softly)
\par           I expect you to make no judgments
\par           and do the same.  This mission is
\par           assigned to your group and I order
\par           you to carry it out.
\par 
\par                      CAPT. ABTMEYER
\par                (without hesitation)
\par           And, sir, I must again...
\par 
\par                      COL. VON SPERLING
\par                (explosively interrupting)
\par           Pause a moment and consider all the
\par           possibilities, Abtmeyer.  Don't let
\par           a late night of drinking and a ready
\par           mouth get you in trouble.  This is
\par           no joke.
\par 
\par ANOTHER ANGLE - FAVORING ABTMEYER'S FACE
\par 
\par                      CAPT. ABTMEYER
\par                (pausing a moment to
\par                 satisfy von Sperling)
\par           I realize the full seriousness,
\par           Colonel.  And I again refuse this
\par           order.  This is a unique situation
\par           in special times.
\par 
\par                      COL. VON SPERLING
\par                (after a long pause; to
\par                 Major Gosswald)
\par           Call in the guards.
\par 
\par Gosswald crosses, opens the door and calls in the guards.
\par They shuffle into the room, ill-at-ease in the presence of
\par all the brass.  They are armed with sub-machine guns.
\par 
\par                      COL. VON SPERLING
\par                (to the guards)
\par           Men, you are witnesses; give your
\par           names to Major Gosswald afterwards.
\par                (to Capt. Abtmeyer)
\par           Captain Abtmeyer, you have refused a
\par           direct order.  I consider this a
\par           special situation... the refusal of
\par           an order under combat conditions.
\par 
\par VARIOUS QUICK CUTS OF THE FACES IN THE ROOM
\par 
\par SHOT OF COL. VON SPERLING FROM BEHIND ABTMEYER
\par 
\par                      COL. VON SPERLING
\par           I sentence you to be shot
\par           immediately.
\par                (to Major Gosswald)
\par           Major Gosswald, I order you to carry
\par           out this sentence as soon as
\par           possible by the most humane means.
\par 
\par CLOSE - ABTMEYER - HE IS STUNNED
\par 
\par A very short pause while the significance of this sinks in.
\par Apparently he did not expect such a severe punishment.
\par 
\par                      MAJOR GOSSWALD
\par                (to the guards)
\par           Fall back outside.
\par                (to Abtmeyer)
\par           Will you please come with me,
\par           Captain?
\par 
\par Abtmeyer has himself fully under control.  He refuses to
\par speak, however, not knowing what he would say.  His glance
\par crosses with that of Dietrich for a long moment as he turns
\par to leave.  He strides rapidly from the room; Gosswald follows
\par him out and closes the door.
\par 
\par SHOT - FAVORING DIETRICH
\par 
\par Several moments of silence.  Colonel von Sperling walks to
\par the window, his hands clasped behind his back.  He turns and
\par begins abruptly.
\par 
\par                      COL. VON SPERLING
\par           That is an unfortunate beginning.
\par           Oberlieutenant Dietrich, I'm putting
\par           you in charge of the mission.  You
\par           are the only man left who is capable
\par           of commanding such a daring and
\par           dangerous assignment.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par                (cannot conceal a note of
\par                 pride)
\par           Yes, sir.  May I ask a favor of the
\par           Colonel?
\par 
\par                      COL. VON SPERLING
\par           Certainly, Dietrich.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           May I ask the Colonel to reconsider
\par           his execution order for Colonel
\par           Abtmeyer?  He has been a brave
\par           officer for three years in our
\par           outfit.  It is not difficult to
\par           understand a man's courage breaking
\par           under such a strain.
\par 
\par PAGE MISSING
\par 
\par REVERSE SHOT - THE GUARDS AND GOSSWALD FROM BEHIND ABTMEYER
\par 
\par Gosswald slowly walks back to the guards.  He places
\par Abtmeyer's gear carefully on the ground.  The guards position
\par themselves about two yards apart with Gosswald behind them.
\par He instructs them.
\par 
\par                      MAJOR GOSSWALD
\par           Fire on my command.  Aim for the
\par           chest and fire a short burst of
\par           about five rounds.  Ready...
\par 
\par The guards brace the sub-machine guns against their hips.
\par 
\par                      MAJOR GOSSWALD
\par           Aim...
\par 
\par They adjust their weapons.
\par 
\par                      MAJOR GOSSWALD
\par           Fire.
\par 
\par The rounds burst out jolting Abtmeyer's body.
\par 
\par                                              DISSOLVE TO:
\par 
\par EXT.  DESERTED TRAINING AREA - LTS. DIETRICH AND KRAUS - DAY
\par 
\par They are walking in thoughtful silence.
\par 
\par                      LT. KRAUS
\par                (after a long silence)
\par           Tragic... unnecessary... to go
\par           through the whole war and come to an
\par           end like that.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           And such a brave officer.
\par 
\par                      LT. KRAUS
\par           At least he might have been a little
\par           more clever about it.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           He obviously didn't expect to be
\par           shot.
\par 
\par They walk in silence.
\par 
\par                      LT. KRAUS
\par           He knew it was suicide to go.  I
\par           guess he just decided to gamble on
\par           von Sperling's kindness.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           Yes, well -- I guess there's nothing
\par           anyone can do about it now.  And I
\par           think we'd better get going.  We've
\par           got lots to do.
\par 
\par                      LT. KRAUS
\par                (with absolute conviction)
\par           Paul, I'm not going along on this
\par           and neither are you!
\par 
\par They stop walking.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           What?  You must be crazy.
\par 
\par                      LT. KRAUS
\par           On the contrary.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           Do you want to be shot like
\par           Abtmeyer?
\par 
\par                      LT. KRAUS
\par           I don't intend to be.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           What are you going to do?  Hand in
\par           your resignation to von Sperling?
\par 
\par                      LT. KRAUS
\par           It would not be difficult to
\par           disappear.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           You'd get as far as the first
\par           checkpoint and they'd hang you from
\par           a tree.
\par 
\par                      LT. KRAUS
\par           Remember the time we hid for a month
\par           dodging Russian patrols.  We could
\par           strike out cross country and just
\par           stay in the woods a few weeks until
\par           the Americans come.
\par 
\par Dietrich reflects for a moment and shakes his head.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           I couldn't do something like that.
\par 
\par                      LT. KRAUS
\par           Why in hell not?
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           It would be running away and leaving
\par           someone else to do my lousy job.
\par 
\par                      LT. KRAUS
\par           Paul, don't talk like a child.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           I would never be able to face myself
\par           again.
\par 
\par                      LT. KRAUS
\par           This is not the time for Wagnerian
\par           poses.
\par 
\par Dietrich speaks to his friend as though explaining something
\par to an uncomprehending child.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           Whatever my personal sentiments may
\par           be, I am an officer.  I swore an
\par           oath of allegiance.  It is my duty
\par           to obey this order.
\par 
\par                      LT. KRAUS
\par           Duty... duty to whom?  To the madmen
\par           who have brought nothing but shame
\par           and ruin to our country?
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           Oskar, we are friends.  There is no
\par           one closer to my heart than you.  I
\par           would give my life for you.  But
\par           there is no point in trying to prove
\par           you are right to me.  I will do
\par           whatever I can to help you but I
\par           cannot go with you.
\par 
\par Silence.  They resume walking.
\par 
\par                      LT. KRAUS
\par           You agree it's suicide to go?
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           I would feel the same way if I did,
\par           but I don't think that's necessarily
\par           the case.
\par 
\par Lieutenant Kraus nods his head ironically.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           You know, it wouldn't be the same
\par           this time without you along.
\par 
\par                      LT. KRAUS
\par           That's true, then only one of us
\par           would be killed.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           At least you haven't lost your sense
\par           of humor.  Look, if you've really
\par           made up your mind not to go --
\par 
\par                      LT. KRAUS
\par           Don't be silly.  You know I couldn't
\par           let you win all the glory alone.
\par           Besides it will look better being
\par           shot by the Americans than by the
\par           SS.
\par 
\par The two men embrace each other, manfully.
\par 
\par                                              DISSOLVE TO:
\par 
\par EXT.  MEN IN TWO LINES OUTSIDE THE SUPPLY HOUSE - DAY
\par 
\par The supply house is an ugly, one story, wooden warehouse.
\par Two lines of battle-clad paratroopers minus helmets and
\par weapons pass into the building through a wide, sliding door.
\par 
\par                      FIRST SOLDIER
\par                (bitter sarcasm)
\par           They're going to drop us on
\par           Washington and we're going to hold
\par           the American government for ransom.
\par 
\par                      SECOND SOLDIER
\par           Let's drop on Paris instead.  There
\par           are a couple of other things I'd
\par           like to hold for ransom while we're
\par           at it.
\par 
\par                      THIRD SOLDIER
\par           That's only fair.  They held you up
\par           for a pretty high price the last
\par           time.
\par 
\par                      FIRST SOLDIER
\par                (disgustedly)
\par           I wish it was Berlin.  We could end
\par           this damn war in a hurry with a
\par           couple of grenades introduced in the
\par           right government circles.
\par 
\par The line shuffles slowly to the door of the warehouse.
\par 
\par INT.  THE SUPPLY HOUSE - BRUGGEMANN AND KRAUS - DAY
\par 
\par The supply house is run like a store.  It has a large counter
\par where the men wait for their equipment to be brought to them
\par by the supply clerks from the racks, chests, bins and boxes
\par in which the various items are stored.
\par 
\par As each man reaches the counter, his officer, either
\par BRUGGEMANN or Kraus, finds his name on the team list and
\par reads off to the supply clerk the equipment for this man item
\par by item.
\par 
\par As the supply clerk gets each item, the lieutenant checks it
\par off his list.  The team sergeants flank the lieutenants
\par keeping the lines quiet and closed up.
\par 
\par The men are stunned by the quantities of ammo and demolitions
\par they are getting; they realize the mission must be a tough
\par one.  Much of the dialogue is carried on simultaneously as
\par the two teams draw equipment at the same time.
\par 
\par                      SECURITY TEAM SERGEANT
\par           Close the line up and keep it quiet.
\par 
\par                      LT. KRAUS
\par                (from his clipboard)
\par           Blecke, Corporal, machine gunner...
\par           Light Machine Gun and pistol.
\par 
\par                      LT. BRUGGEMANN
\par           Do you have the sub-machine gun
\par           there?
\par 
\par                      SUPPLY CLERK
\par           Right, sir.
\par 
\par                      LT. BRUGGEMANN
\par           Ten magazines SMG ammo; two
\par           magazines pistol ammo.
\par 
\par                      LT. KRAUS
\par           Give him two magazines of ammo for
\par           the pistol and 250 rounds for the
\par           MG.
\par 
\par                      SUPPLY CLERK
\par           Check, sir.
\par 
\par                      DEMOLITION TEAM SERGEANT
\par                (shouting)
\par           Keep the noise down out there.  The
\par           lieutenants can't read from the
\par           lists.
\par 
\par                      LT. BRUGGEMANN
\par           Two 150 foot lengths of climbing
\par           rope, fifteen snap links, fifteen
\par           pitons, piton hammer...
\par 
\par                      CLIMBER
\par           I've got my own hammer, sir.
\par 
\par                      LT. KRAUS
\par           Schreiber, Corporal, assistant
\par           gunner... pistol and two magazines
\par           of ammo.
\par 
\par                      SUPPLY CLERK
\par           Check, sir.
\par 
\par                      LT. BRUGGEMANN
\par           Mohring, Corporal, demolitions
\par           man... twenty pounds plastic
\par           explosive, Torbite A-2...
\par 
\par                      SUPPLY CLERK
\par           Explosive... check, sir.
\par 
\par                      LT. KRAUS
\par           Three boxes, LMG ammo... 750 rounds.
\par 
\par                      LT. BRUGGEMANN
\par           Cap box with ten percussion caps,
\par           crimper.
\par 
\par                      ASSISTANT LMG GUNNER
\par           750 rounds?
\par 
\par                      SECURITY TEAM SERGEANT
\par           What's the matter, Schreiber?  Too
\par           heavy for you?
\par 
\par                      ASSISTANT LMG GUNNER
\par                (sarcastically)
\par           This must be the big winter
\par           offensive we've been waiting for,
\par           sergeant.
\par 
\par                      LT. KRAUS
\par           Keep the noise down, Sergeant
\par           Kohler.
\par 
\par                      LT. BRUGGEMANN
\par           Ten feet time fuse and two fuse
\par           lighters.
\par 
\par Lt. Dietrich pushes past the men standing in the door and
\par comes into the supply house.  One of the sergeants sees him
\par and starts to call attention but Dietrich quiets him.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           Carry on... carry on with the work.
\par 
\par He walks around the counter and up to his lieutenants.  They
\par pause for a minute.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par                (inquiringly)
\par           It's 1220.  How close are you to
\par           being finished?
\par 
\par                      LT. BRUGGEMANN
\par           I think we're both about three-
\par           quarters through.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           Leave your sergeants in charge and
\par           tell them to finish up here in a
\par           hurry.
\par 
\par                      LT. KRAUS
\par           What is it?
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           I don't know.  Colonel von Sperling
\par           wants to see us.
\par 
\par He quickly pushes out of the supply room again.  The men
\par stand back respectfully and let him pass.
\par 
\par THE SUPPLY HOUSE DOORWAY
\par 
\par                      SECOND SOLDIER
\par           Did you see that demo equipment and
\par           climbing gear.  Maybe we're finally
\par           going to invade Switzerland.
\par 
\par                      SECURITY TEAM SERGEANT
\par           Next man, move up.
\par 
\par                                              DISSOLVE TO:
\par 
\par EXT.  ENTRANCE TO HEADQUARTERS - DAY
\par 
\par As the three Lieutenants enter they notice a Gestapo staff
\par car parked in front.
\par 
\par SHOT OF GESTAPO STAFF CAR WITH DRIVER
\par 
\par                                              DISSOLVE TO:
\par 
\par INT.  COL. VON SPERLING'S OFFICE - DAY
\par 
\par The door opens and Major Gosswald ushers in the three
\par officers and goes out shutting the door.  The three line up
\par in front of the colonel's desk and Dietrich reports.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par                (in official tone)
\par           D Group officers reporting as
\par           ordered, sir.
\par 
\par                      COL. VON SPERLING
\par                (mildly)
\par           Stand at ease, gentlemen.
\par 
\par Col. von Sperling pauses as the lieutenants relax.
\par 
\par                      COL. VON SPERLING
\par           There is a Gestapo agent outside
\par           checking on a murder of another
\par           agent last night in Karlstadt.  This
\par           agent was last seen following an
\par           officer of this command from the
\par           Cafe Wein.  He was found outside in
\par           the morning with his chest crushed
\par           in and otherwise badly beaten.
\par                (there is silence as he
\par                 pauses a moment)
\par           D Group officers were the only ones
\par           authorized leave last night.  I
\par           wonder if any of you, gentlemen,
\par           have information on this matter.
\par 
\par CLOSE - DIETRICH
\par 
\par He exchanges a brief glance with Kraus, who from all
\par appearances has been told of the fight outside the cafe last
\par night.
\par 
\par CLOSE - COLONEL VON SPERLING
\par 
\par He notices the significant exchange of looks.  He frowns.
\par 
\par GROUP SHOT - EVERYONE
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par                (in a loud, mechanical
\par                 voice)
\par           I believe I may be responsible, sir.
\par 
\par                      COL. VON SPERLING
\par           Please be responsible in a softer
\par           voice, Lieutenant.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           Yes, sir.  An agent from the Gestapo
\par           tried to arrest me last night as I
\par           was leaving the Cafe Wein.  In the
\par           resulting fight I may have been
\par           responsible for his death.
\par 
\par                      COL. VON SPERLING
\par                (gazing out window)
\par           Why did he want to arrest you?
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           He accused me of making politically
\par           disloyal statements.
\par 
\par Colonel von Sperling inscrutably taps a pencil on his desk,
\par wrapped in thought.
\par 
\par                      COL. VON SPERLING
\par                (loudly)
\par           Gosswald... Major Gosswald.
\par 
\par His adjutant opens the door.
\par 
\par                      COL. VON SPERLING
\par           Please show in Herr Grauschmidt.
\par 
\par Kraus gives Dietrich a look, as if to say, "Why in hell did
\par you have to admit that?"
\par 
\par                      MAJOR GOSSWALD
\par           Yes, sir.
\par                (speaking to someone
\par                 offscreen)
\par           The Colonel would like to see you
\par           again, sir.
\par 
\par Gosswald holds the door for the Gestapo agent.  He is a fat,
\par cherubic looking German in a suit and heavy belted coat.
\par 
\par                      HERR GRAUSCHMIDT
\par                (he has little love for
\par                 von Sperling)
\par           I see you waste little time, Colonel
\par           von Sperling.
\par 
\par Colonel von Sperling forces an insincere smile, bows his head
\par slightly in ironic deference.
\par 
\par                      HERR GRAUSCHMIDT
\par                (he bows and smiles to the
\par                 lieutenants)
\par           The colonel explained to me that you
\par           are preparing for a mission and that
\par           your time is tightly scheduled.
\par 
\par                      COL. VON SPERLING
\par           Your time is valuable also, I
\par           suspect, Herr Grauschmidt.  I'll get
\par           right to the matter.  It is as I
\par           suspected...
\par 
\par Lt. Dietrich stiffens.  After von Sperling's harshness with
\par Abtmeyer, he fully expects to be turned over to the Gestapo.
\par 
\par                      COL. VON SPERLING
\par           Yes.  It is as Capt. Abtmeyer
\par           admitted prior to his execution this
\par           morning.  These officers left him in
\par           the canteen or immediately outside
\par           it.  Lt. Dietrich tells me that
\par           Abtmeyer was not himself and was
\par           showing him a propaganda leaflet.
\par           The fact that he refused a direct
\par           order this morning indicates that he
\par           was under a severe mental strain.
\par 
\par The Gestapo agent does not appear to believe him, but is
\par powerless to press anything further.
\par 
\par                      HERR GRAUSCHMIDT
\par                (bowing his head)
\par           Thank you, Colonel.  I am extremely
\par           sorry but I shall have to file a
\par           full report on this.
\par                (a veiled threat)
\par 
\par                      COL. VON SPERLING
\par           As you wish, Herr Grauschmidt.
\par 
\par The Gestapo man exits.
\par 
\par                      COL. VON SPERLING
\par                (to Dietrich)
\par           Do not mistake my lie just now for
\par           sentimentality.  As an Army man I
\par           have no love for the Gestapo, and I
\par           have no interest in political
\par           matters or opinions.  The only thing
\par           that concerns me is my duty and your
\par           ability to carry out your orders.
\par           You are one of the best officers in
\par           the unit and you are too important
\par           at the moment to be handed over to
\par           those pigs.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           Yes, sir.
\par 
\par                      COL. VON SPERLING
\par           You may go.
\par 
\par They salute and exit.  The camera holds on the Colonel.  He
\par walks to the picture of General Kurt Student.  He stands
\par before it as if expecting an expression of sympathy from a
\par friend.
\par 
\par                                         SLOW DISSOLVE TO:
\par 
\par EXT.  AFTERNOON - AIRFIELD
\par 
\par The field has been bombed recently.  There are several burned
\par and damaged aircraft pushed off to the edge of the concrete
\par strip and the strip itself is damaged.
\par 
\par The hangers and the maintenance and operations buildings are
\par well-camouflaged with nets.  Several pairs of anti-aircraft
\par machine guns and one flak gun are dug-in in the vicinity.
\par 
\par LONG SHOT DOWN AIRSTRIP
\par 
\par Five lorries roll down the airstrip and pull up under a
\par camouflage net outside an empty hanger.
\par 
\par With shouts of the sergeants and slamming of truck gates the
\par men jump off the rear and file into the hanger.  They are
\par heavily ladened with weapons and equipment and in full battle
\par gear.  Their boots make a pounding sound on the concrete.
\par 
\par                                              DISSOLVE TO:
\par 
\par INT.  AFTERNOON - INSIDE THE HANGER
\par 
\par The men are seated on the hanger floor.  They have taken off
\par their gear and are leaning against it and cradling their
\par weapons between their legs.
\par 
\par In the front Dietrich is conferring with Bruggemann and
\par Kraus.  Behind him is a reversible blackboard on a stand.
\par 
\par A staff car pulls up outside the hanger and Colonel von
\par Sperling and his staff get out; they enter the hanger.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par                (in loud, command voice)
\par           D Group, attention.
\par 
\par The men spring to their feet and stand rigidly at attention.
\par Col. von Sperling and his staff walk to the rear of the men.
\par Their steps echo hollowly in the hanger.  When and only when
\par he has reached the rear, does von Sperling put the unit at
\par ease.
\par 
\par                      COL. VON SPERLING
\par           At ease, men.
\par 
\par The men sit back down with an undertone of talking and
\par shuffling as they settle themselves.
\par 
\par                      COL. VON SPERLING
\par           You may begin the briefing,
\par           Lieutenant.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           We were just starting, sir.
\par 
\par Dietrich moves to the blackboard and looks briefly at notes
\par on his clipboard; he is without nervousness, obviously in his
\par element.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           All right, give me your attention.
\par                (the hushed conversations
\par                 cease)
\par           D Group has been selected for a
\par           night parachute drop and a bridge
\par           demolition in the Obernburg-Main
\par           River area.
\par                (he pauses)
\par           Take-off will be at 1900 hours and
\par           the drop at 2100.  There will be
\par           three planes with twenty men in
\par           each.
\par 
\par SHOT - THE MEN LISTENING
\par 
\par Bruggemann, Kraus and the sergeants are taking occasional
\par notes.
\par 
\par One man is oiling the bolt of his SMG by rubbing it across
\par the bridge of his nose.
\par 
\par Another gently hones his killing knife on the sole of his
\par boot.
\par 
\par In the rear the colonel and his staff listen intently.
\par 
\par NOTE:  The briefing will be visually interesting.  Ample
\par drawings, photographs and models will be employed.  The goal
\par of this scene is to make the audience understand the details
\par of the mission, so when it later unfolds, they feel a sense
\par of participation.
\par 
\par ANOTHER - LT. DIETRICH AT THE BLACKBOARD
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           Pay attention to this.  Especially
\par           you, Masserman.  The last jump you
\par           had to ask directions from the
\par           Russians.
\par 
\par There is an undercurrent of guffaws.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           This is what the drop zone looks
\par           like.
\par                (he draws an arrow)
\par           The planes will fly from East to
\par           West.  The assembly area is in the
\par           south-east corner on the high ground
\par           here.  The sergeants will show you
\par           all the aerials afterwards.
\par                (he points to the board)
\par           I want a rapid, silent assembly.  It
\par           will be night and the darkness will
\par           give us a big edge in surprise.
\par 
\par Dietrich glances at his clipboard.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           The drop zone is about eight
\par           kilometers from the target bridge so
\par           that if we lose security, it won't
\par           disclose the objective.
\par                (he flips the blackboard)
\par           Here's the way it looks.  The
\par           sergeants have maps and will show it
\par           to you afterwards.
\par                (he draws rapidly)
\par           The Main River runs here.  Sort of
\par           North-South.  The bridge is here.
\par           Near Obernburg.  The drop zone is
\par           north of the bridge and on the east
\par           of the river, here.  It should take
\par           us not more than three hours to get
\par           from the drop zone to the bridge.
\par                (he looks at his
\par                 clipboard)
\par           Here are the enemy dispositions in
\par           the bridge area.
\par 
\par SHOT - THE MEN LISTENING
\par 
\par As Dietrich reads from his list, the men glance at each other
\par in surprise and dismay as the list grows formidably long.
\par Bruggemann has a grin on his face but Kraus looks a little
\par sick.  The officers in the rear are non-committal.
\par 
\par ANOTHER ANGLE - DIETRICH
\par 
\par Dietrich finishes the list and pauses.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           That's part of the American Third
\par           Army rear echelon and mobile
\par           reserve.  But they've got bigger
\par           things on their minds than us.
\par           We've got a small enough group to
\par           slip through and a big enough one to
\par           handle anything coming our way.
\par 
\par Dietrich flips the blackboard back over.  It still has the
\par drawing of the drop zone on it.  He tears off a sheet of
\par paper from his clipboard and scrubs most of the drawing off.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           Here's what the bridge area looks
\par           like.
\par                (he draws rapidly)
\par           This is the road to Obernburg.  Now
\par           the immediate area of the bridge is
\par           defended by a company of combat
\par           engineers who also maintain the
\par           span.  They have about two hundred
\par           men on top of the cliffs at road bed
\par           level.
\par 
\par SHOT - THE MEN
\par 
\par One man has fallen asleep.  A sergeant reaches over and gives
\par him a thump on the head.  He wakes up with a start and looks
\par a little guilty.
\par 
\par ANOTHER ANGLE - LT. DIETRICH
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par                (pointing as he goes
\par                 along)
\par           The bridge spans a deep ravine and
\par           the lower abutments are sunken into
\par           the face of the rock walls about two
\par           hundred feet above the bottom of the
\par           ravine.
\par                (using pointer to
\par                 illustrate each feature)
\par           This is in our favor since we
\par           believe the bridge is only guarded
\par           from the top.  By day the area below
\par           can be well protected from the high
\par           vantage point and by night it is
\par           assumed the rock walls are
\par           impossible to climb.  Our job is
\par           going to be to show the Americans
\par           what we learned in our Alpine
\par           weekends.
\par 
\par CUTS TO THE MEN
\par 
\par They look skeptical about the sheer climb.
\par 
\par FAVORING DIETRICH
\par 
\par He smiles confidently.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           When the mission has been completed
\par           we will infiltrate our way back
\par           through the lines in small groups.
\par           Do you have anything to add,
\par           Colonel?
\par 
\par                      COL. VON SPERLING
\par                (said simply and with
\par                 sincerity)
\par           No, Lieutenant.  You did an
\par           excellent job.  I would like to take
\par           this opportunity to wish you all the
\par           best of luck.
\par 
\par He nods to Dietrich.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           Following this briefing, each squad
\par           will be briefed in detail by their
\par           squad leaders.  Then there will be
\par           hot rations.  I guarantee no ersatz
\par           ersatz.  We will chute up in one
\par           hour and fifteen minutes.
\par 
\par As Lt. Dietrich leaves, there is an organized chaos of men
\par getting up, finding their gear and shuffling out of the
\par hanger.
\par 
\par EXT.  LATE EVENING - MEN SITTING IN GROUP
\par 
\par The men are sitting against the wall of the hanger.  They are
\par idly eating from several cans of food.  One is not eating at
\par all but is leaning back smoking.
\par 
\par                                              DISSOLVE TO:
\par 
\par INT.  EVENING - LUFTWAFFE OPERATIONS ROOM
\par 
\par Crowded into the room and sitting or standing around are
\par Dietrich, von Sperling, Major Gosswald, Major von Bredow,
\par three pilots and their navigators, several enlisted clerks
\par and radio operators and a lieutenant colonel in the Luftwaffe
\par who is in charge of the airfield.  They are all sitting idly
\par waiting for something.
\par 
\par In the corner the radio is crackling.  One of the clerks is
\par posting the flight information on the operations board.  The
\par navigators are copying it down.  One of the radio operators
\par gets up and takes off his head set.  He brings the message
\par over to the lieutenant colonel.
\par 
\par                      LT. COLONEL
\par                (in low tone)
\par           Is this the latest?
\par 
\par                      RADIO OPERATOR
\par           Yes, sir.  That's the special report
\par           you requested.
\par 
\par                      LT. COLONEL
\par           I want a report every thirty minutes
\par           and a special report if there is any
\par           sudden change.
\par 
\par                      COL. VON SPERLING
\par                (having caught something)
\par           What is it, Colonel Bleuler?  Has
\par           the weather changed?
\par 
\par The men in the room stop and look around.  The navigators
\par stop copying but the clerk keeps posting the compass plots on
\par the blackboard.  Dietrich gets up and comes over.  He has
\par been conversing quietly with Major von Bredow.
\par 
\par                      LT. COLONEL
\par           I'm afraid so, colonel.  The weather
\par           on the drop zone will be affected by
\par           rain and high winds moving in from
\par           the north-west in another thirty
\par           minutes.  They expect it to clear in
\par           several hours.
\par 
\par A hush falls over the room.
\par 
\par                      COL. VON SPERLING
\par           Let me know immediately if the
\par           weather changes.
\par 
\par                      LT. COLONEL
\par           Yes, sir.  We'll continue the
\par           briefing and put the planes on
\par           standby.
\par 
\par EXT.  A GROUP OF ENLISTED MEN - EVENING
\par 
\par The men are falling into plane loads in front of the hanger
\par on the concrete strip.  A sergeant is reading the makeup of
\par the planes from a list.
\par 
\par                      SERGEANT
\par                (loudly)
\par           First Plane:  Assault Team One,
\par           Demolition One.  Move into the
\par           hanger.
\par 
\par                      FIRST SOLDIER
\par                (dead pan; standing in a
\par                 group nearby)
\par           The German Army is the only army
\par           that holds formations for organized
\par           sleeping in ranks.
\par 
\par                      SECOND SOLDIER
\par                (stonily)
\par           Your outlook has cheered up with
\par           this postponement.  Your jokes are
\par           almost funny.
\par 
\par                      THIRD SOLDIER
\par                (bitterly)
\par           Postponement.  He thought the
\par           lieutenant said cancellation and
\par           this was a formation to sleep out
\par           the rest of the war.
\par 
\par                      SERGEANT
\par                (turning to them)
\par           A little quiet so they can hear the
\par           instructions.
\par                (loudly)
\par           Second Plane:  Assault Team Two,
\par           Security Team One.
\par 
\par                                              DISSOLVE TO:
\par 
\par INT.  HANGER - MEDIUM LONG SHOT - NIGHT
\par 
\par The men are sleeping, leaning against the hanger walls or
\par against their gear.  Many have their helmets pulled over
\par their faces.  Here and there men are awake and are smoking in
\par silence.  There is an occasional murmured conversation.
\par 
\par INT.  LUFTWAFFE OPERATIONS ROOM
\par 
\par Many of the personnel have left.  Colonel von Sperling is
\par wrapped in a blanket, in a chair with his feet propped on a
\par desk.
\par 
\par The lieutenant colonel is sitting at a desk playing cards
\par with Major von Bredow.
\par 
\par One of the radio operators is wrapped in a blanket, sleeping
\par on the floor.  The other is at his set.  On the board are the
\par completed flight instructions.  The pilots and navigators
\par have long since returned to the more comfortable quarters of
\par their planes.  The clock on the wall shows 2330 hours.
\par 
\par                                              DISSOLVE TO:
\par 
\par INT.  LUFTWAFFE OPERATIONS ROOM
\par 
\par The clock now shows 0230.  The only people awake now are the
\par radio operator and Major von Bredow who is reading a book.
\par The Luftwaffe officer has slumped over and is sleeping with
\par his head on the desk.  Dietrich enters and von Bredow looks
\par up.
\par 
\par                      MAJ. VON BREDOW
\par           Back again.  You must have some
\par           interest in the weather.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           I just have a natural curiosity.
\par 
\par                      MAJ VON BREDOW
\par           Still weathered in with change
\par           expected "momentarily."
\par 
\par                      COL. VON SPERLING
\par           Damn their momentary change.
\par                (he throws off the blanket
\par                 and sits up)
\par           If they delay the thing any more,
\par           we'll be fighting the Americans for
\par           the airstrip.
\par                (to von Bredow)
\par           What exactly did the report say?
\par 
\par                      MAJ. VON BREDOW
\par           It said exactly, sir, "No change.
\par           Weather front moving east.  Change
\par           expected momentarily."
\par 
\par INT.  HANGER - DIETRICH, KRAUS, BRUGGEMANN - NIGHT
\par 
\par Dietrich approaches the other two in the dark.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par                (whispering)
\par           Are you awake?
\par 
\par                      LT. BRUGGEMANN
\par           I'm awake.
\par 
\par                      LT. KRAUS
\par                (sitting up suddenly from
\par                 near by)
\par           What is it?  Are they ready?
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par                (gloomily)
\par           No change.
\par 
\par                      LT. KRAUS
\par                (eagerly)
\par           Hell, it's almost 0300.  If it gets
\par           much later, it'll be canceled.  They
\par           won't drop us in daylight.  They're
\par           not completely insane.
\par 
\par                                              DISSOLVE TO:
\par 
\par EXT.  LONG SHOT OF THE HANGER AREA FAVORING GRAY SKY - DAWN
\par 
\par MEDIUM SHOT - DIETRICH
\par 
\par He stands stamping his feet to get them warm.  He looks up at
\par the sky.  It's grey and clouded, getting light around the
\par edge in the east.  Kraus comes up behind him and pounds him
\par on the back.
\par 
\par                      LT. KRAUS
\par                (smiling)
\par           Pure Austrian weather.  Rain off the
\par           mountains.
\par 
\par Dietrich stares gloomily at the sky.
\par 
\par The men are up and are stamping the cold and the aches out of
\par their bones.  They are cheerful, knowing the mission has
\par undoubtedly been canceled.  They call across the hanger at
\par one another.
\par 
\par An orderly approaches.
\par 
\par                      ORDERLY
\par           Colonel von Sperling would like to
\par           see you, sir.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par                (to the orderly)
\par           I'm coming right away.
\par 
\par He walks rapidly towards the operations building followed by
\par the orderly.
\par 
\par                                              DISSOLVE TO:
\par 
\par INT.  THE OPERATIONS ROOM - DAWN
\par 
\par The pilots are sitting around drinking coffee with the
\par Luftwaffe lieutenant colonel; they are laughing and joking.
\par Obviously the tension is off.  The colonel is reading a radio
\par dispatch.  As Dietrich comes up, von Sperling motions Major
\par von Bredow over.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par                (saluting)
\par           You sent for me, sir.
\par 
\par                      COL. VON SPERLING
\par           You can get your men ready, Lt.
\par           Dietrich.  The weather has cleared
\par           in the drop zone.
\par                (glancing at his watch and
\par                 the clock)
\par           It's 0624 now.  Station time will be
\par           0650 and take-off at 0700.
\par 
\par QUICK CUTS - THE PERSONNEL
\par 
\par In stunned astonishment.
\par 
\par ANOTHER ANGLE - THE OPERATIONS ROOM
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par                (seems almost relieved)
\par           Yes, sir.
\par 
\par                      COL. VON SPERLING
\par           There are undoubtedly many
\par           disadvantages.  But at least they
\par           won't be expecting any attack and
\par           especially in daylight.
\par 
\par                      LT. COLONEL
\par                (coming over hurriedly)
\par           I can't believe, Colonel von
\par           Sperling, that you plan to go
\par           through with this mission in the
\par           daylight.
\par 
\par                      COL. VON SPERLING
\par           Colonel, my instructions were to
\par           destroy this bridge; nothing was
\par           said as to the proper time of day!
\par                (he pauses)
\par           Instruct your pilots to re-plot for
\par           a one-leg pass at the drop zone with
\par           a low level approach at 250 meters.
\par           If they hedge-hop, they shouldn't be
\par           much bothered by ground fire or
\par           fighters.  Station time is 0650 and
\par           take-off at 0700 hours.
\par 
\par The Luftwaffe officer turns away without a word and begins
\par conferring with his pilots.
\par 
\par                      COL. VON SPERLING
\par                (to Dietrich)
\par           You will probably lose security
\par           before you reach the bridge.
\par           Reroute so that the Americans won't
\par           discover the objective by plotting
\par           your route.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           Yes, sir.
\par 
\par                                              DISSOLVE TO:
\par 
\par EXT.  AIRSTRIP IN FRONT OF THE HANGER - DAY
\par 
\par The men are formed up in teams under the camouflage net in
\par front of the hanger.  They are talking quietly and joking.
\par The tension is off.
\par 
\par Dietrich comes out of the operations building and walks to
\par the front of the formation rapidly.  He looks around.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par                (in command voice)
\par           Sergeants, reform the men into their
\par           plane loads.  And move them over to
\par           the trucks to draw chutes.
\par 
\par There is a moment of silence as the men and NCO's grasp the
\par situation.  Then the sergeants begin to shout out orders and
\par the men scramble back into plane load formation.
\par 
\par The trucks with the chutes pull around in front and the
\par sergeants begin to move the men by to draw the bag containing
\par a back pack and reserve.
\par 
\par Bruggemann and Kraus come rushing up.
\par 
\par                      LT. KRAUS
\par           They can't be meaning to drop us
\par           now.
\par 
\par The group of pilots and navigators with Col. Bleuler leave
\par the operations room.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par                (ignoring them)
\par           They are flying a straight route to
\par           the drop zone.  Drop altitude 250
\par           meters.  You won't need reserves.
\par           Have the men leave them by the
\par           planes.
\par                (he checks his watch)
\par           Have them in the planes at 0650.
\par           Take-off ten minutes after.
\par                (he looks at them)
\par           Make sure you tell your plane loads
\par           the new route azimuths.
\par 
\par He slaps Kraus on the back and shakes his hand.  Then
\par Bruggemann's.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           Good luck.  See you on the drop
\par           zone.
\par 
\par They salute and all run to their plane loads.  The men have
\par almost finished drawing chutes.
\par 
\par                                              DISSOLVE TO:
\par 
\par ANOTHER ANGLE
\par 
\par The planes have started up and taxi in front of the hangers
\par in line.  They stop.  The men file over to their planes,
\par staggering under the double loads of chutes and battle gear.
\par They plop down their chutes.
\par 
\par CLOSE SHOT - SEVERAL MEN IN THE STICK
\par 
\par                      FIRST SOLDIER
\par                (pulling out the chute)
\par           I wish von Sperling was on this
\par           trip.  I'd like to stick this knife
\par           in his ear.
\par 
\par                      SERGEANT
\par                (pointing)
\par           Throw the reserves over there.  We
\par           won't be needing them at 250 meters.
\par 
\par                      SECOND SOLDIER
\par                (spitting)
\par           250 meters.  We don't need a
\par           chute... Just a long ladder.
\par 
\par                      THIRD SOLDIER
\par           Just before you hit, jump up.
\par 
\par                      SERGEANT
\par                (shouting)
\par           Put them on.
\par 
\par SHOT - PLANE
\par 
\par The planes are tri-motor, Junkers 502's with that peculiar
\par corrugated metal fuselage.
\par 
\par Dietrich jumps in the rear door.
\par 
\par INT.  PLANE - DIETRICH AND FLIGHT CHIEF
\par 
\par Dietrich runs his hands along the edge of the door, feeling
\par for sharp edges.
\par 
\par                      FLIGHT CHIEF
\par                (shouting over engines)
\par           Do you want the bell and the light,
\par           sir.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par                (getting up)
\par           Right, Chief.  Have the pilot check
\par           them out.
\par 
\par The chief goes forward to pilot's compartment.
\par 
\par                      FLIGHT CHIEF
\par                (to pilot)
\par           The jumpmaster wants a bell and
\par           light check, sir.
\par 
\par                      PILOT
\par                (from the compartment)
\par           Right, Chief.
\par 
\par Dietrich is pulling on the anchor line cable, testing it for
\par tension and secureness.  The emergency bell rings loudly in
\par the troop compartment.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           Bell, checked out.
\par 
\par In a box by the door a red light flashes on.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           Red light, all right.
\par 
\par It changes to a green light.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           Green all right.  Everything is in
\par           good shape, Chief.  We'll be loading
\par           in a couple of minutes.
\par 
\par Dietrich jumps back out the rear door.
\par 
\par SHOT - PLANE, DIETRICH, MEN IN HIS STICK
\par 
\par The prop blast staggers Dietrich a little as he moves toward
\par the men in his plane load.  His sergeant, all chuted up, is
\par waiting for him.  The men are standing, squatting or sitting.
\par 
\par                      SGT. STANGE
\par           All chuted up, Lieutenant.  I've got
\par           your chute right here.
\par                (he points to a chute bag)
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           Thank you, Sergeant Stange.
\par 
\par He unzips the bag and pulls out the reserve, then the back
\par pack.  He untwists and straightens the harness, carefully
\par spreading out the straps and checking the chute
\par automatically.  He picks it up and Sgt. Stange takes it from
\par him.  Dietrich turns and shrugs into it like an overcoat.  As
\par he buckles it in front, Sgt. Stange tucks in a few stray
\par edges of canopy.
\par 
\par ANOTHER ANGLE - DIETRICH, STANGE AND THE MEN
\par 
\par                      SGT. STANGE
\par           How is the fit, sir.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           Too small as usual.
\par                (he raises his hands,
\par                 resting them on his
\par                 helmet)
\par           Buckle that belly band, will you?
\par           Get it good and tight.  I almost
\par           fell out of the last one.
\par 
\par Stange buckles the belly band and then snaps it tight.
\par Dietrich brings down his hands to look at his watch.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           That's got it.  Let's check out the
\par           men and then load.  We've got six
\par           minutes to station time.  You start
\par           at the rear.
\par 
\par                      SGT. STANGE
\par           Right, Lieutenant.
\par 
\par ANOTHER ANGLE - DIETRICH AND THE MEN
\par 
\par Dietrich moves down the stick checking chutes.  As he comes
\par to each man, the man raises his hands to his helmet.
\par Dietrich checks his buckles, straps, belly band, then spins
\par him and checks his back pack for loose silk.  When he
\par finishes he slaps the man on the rear and moves on.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par                (pulling on the belly
\par                 band)
\par           You've got that pretty loose, Fromm.
\par 
\par                      FIRST SOLDIER
\par           I like it loose, sir.  Then when it
\par           opens, I know it's there.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par                (spinning him to check the
\par                 back pack)
\par           Don't fall out; you'll scare the
\par           spectators.
\par                (he slaps him on the rear)
\par           All set.
\par 
\par Dietrich moves to the next man.
\par 
\par                      SECOND SOLDIER
\par           Any word on the wind, Lieutenant?
\par 
\par                      THIRD SOLDIER
\par                (bitterly)
\par           The wind... Hell, worry about how
\par           you're going to open a tank with a
\par           pair of wire clippers.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par                (spinning the man and then
\par                 running his hands over
\par                 the chute)
\par           All set, Hassebrauk.
\par                (he moves to the third
\par                 soldier)
\par           Don't worry, Corporal Vollmecke, you
\par           take a tank in each hand and crack
\par           them like nuts.
\par                (he spins Vollmecke)
\par           We'll get the wind reading from the
\par           pilot in the plane.
\par 
\par                      SGT. STANGE
\par                (finishing the next man)
\par           All set, up to here, Lieutenant.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par                (tapping Vollmecke)
\par           Lead them on, Sergeant Stange.
\par 
\par SHOT - MEN FILING ONTO PLANE BY REAR DOOR
\par 
\par Stange leads off and the stick files to the rear of the
\par plane.  One by one they struggle up the steps helped by the
\par man in the rear who holds their weapon and pushes.
\par 
\par The engines are idling with a throaty rumble.  The pilot
\par leans out the window and shouts something to Dietrich smiling
\par all the while.
\par 
\par Dietrich smiles and waves.  He looks at his watch once before
\par loading on.  Stange pulls him up.
\par 
\par The crew chief leans out and unhooks the ladder, pulling it
\par in.  He shuts the door.
\par 
\par INT.  PLANE
\par 
\par In the dim light the men are jamming themselves into the
\par narrow canvas seats and struggling to find their seat belts.
\par The quarters are cramped and hot.
\par 
\par Stange moves down the aisle checking the seat belts on one
\par side; then back up checking the other side.  He takes his
\par seat and fastens his belt.
\par 
\par The plane stops with a lurch.  The pilot begins to run up his
\par engines.
\par 
\par EXT.  LONG SHOT OF AIRSTRIP AND THE THREE PLANES - DAY
\par 
\par The three planes are canted to the runway running up their
\par engines.  The first plane eases off and taxis onto the end of
\par the strip pointing down the runway.  Setting his brakes he
\par revs up.
\par 
\par SHOT - THE PLANES
\par 
\par Releasing his brakes, the pilot starts it down the runway.
\par The next plane taxis up.  The first roars towards the end of
\par the strip and slowly climbs into the air.
\par 
\par SHOT - THE PLANES
\par 
\par The second plane and the third follow.  The three reach for
\par altitude and then level off.  Turning back across the field
\par they move into a V formation.
\par 
\par INT.  PLANE
\par 
\par Lt. Dietrich unbuckles his seat belt and make an unbuckling
\par movement with his hands.  He lurches across the aisle to the
\par flight chief sitting opposite.  Cupping his hand he shouts
\par above the roar of the engines.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           Chief, let me have a verbal at
\par           twenty minutes and another at ten.
\par           The red light at four minutes.  A
\par           one minute and the green and the
\par           bell together.  Got that.
\par 
\par                      FLIGHT CHIEF
\par                (nodding)
\par           Right, sir.  Twenty, ten; red at
\par           four; a one and then the green and
\par           the bell.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           Get the wind reading from the pilot
\par           for me as soon as he gets it.
\par 
\par                      FLIGHT CHIEF
\par                (getting up)
\par           Yes, sir.  Maybe he's got something
\par           now.
\par 
\par The chief moves forward toward the pilot's compartment.
\par Dietrich reaches up and attaches his static line to the
\par anchor line cable.
\par 
\par INT.  PLANE - ANOTHER ANGLE
\par 
\par Dietrich grabs the handle of the door.  Bracing one foot
\par against the wall of the plane, he cracks the suction and
\par pulls open the door.  The wind rushes in.  Pushing the door
\par as far to the rear as it will go, Dietrich reaches behind it
\par and latches it firmly open.  Grabbing tightly to both sides
\par of the door, he leans out to look.  The wind ripples his face
\par weirdly and whips fiercely at his clothes.
\par 
\par SHOT - THE WING AND LEFT ENGINE
\par 
\par SHOT - THE GROUND FROM 300 FEET
\par 
\par                                              DISSOLVE TO:
\par 
\par INT.  PLANE
\par 
\par The engines drone away.  Several men have gotten out of their
\par seats and are lying on the floor.
\par 
\par Most have their eyes closed trying to rest.
\par 
\par Some near the door, look out at the ground.  One man is
\par sharpening his killing knife even now.  But most have their
\par eyes closed.  The engines drone on.
\par 
\par Sgt. Stange gets to his feet and lurches down the aisle.  He
\par stops by Lt. Dietrich who is studying the map.  Leaning one
\par hand on the wall of the plane for balance, he bends down and
\par shouts to Dietrich.
\par 
\par                      SGT. STANGE
\par           How much longer, Lieutenant?
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           It's hard to tell, Sergeant Stange.
\par           Probably another thirty minutes.
\par 
\par                      SGT. STANGE
\par           It's hot as hell back there.  I'm
\par           going to try a little air.
\par 
\par He hooks up and leans out the door.  The wind beats in
\par against him making a roaring sound in the door.
\par 
\par The flight chief opens the door from the pilot's compartment
\par and comes out.  He steps over the men on the floor and comes
\par down to Dietrich.  He flashes ten fingers twice.  Then he
\par sits down on his seat.
\par 
\par INT.  PLANE
\par 
\par The flight chief gets up and moves to the rear of the opened
\par door.  He picks up a pair of ear phones and puts them on.  He
\par plugs the set into a socket on a box on the wall of the
\par plane.
\par 
\par                      FLIGHT CHIEF
\par           Plugged in back here, Captain.
\par           Minus twelve.
\par 
\par INT.  PLANE
\par 
\par The flight chief holds up ten fingers to Lt. Dietrich.
\par Dietrich pulls on the pants leg of Sgt. Stange.  The
\par sergeant comes in out of the door.  Dietrich holds up ten
\par fingers.  The sergeant nods and moves back to his seat.  He
\par kicks the men on the floor as he goes, signaling them back
\par into their seats.  The men who have been trying to sleep sit
\par up, wide awake now.
\par 
\par INT.  PLANE
\par 
\par The flight chief holds up four fingers and points to the
\par light.  The red light is on.  Dietrich gets up and
\par deliberately folds up his seat.  He rehooks his static line
\par to the cable and pushes it back out of the way.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par                (gesturing)
\par           Stand up and hook up.
\par 
\par The men struggle to their feet and shuffle around until they
\par have some room.  They hook their static lines to the cable
\par running down the center of the plane's ceiling.  The men on
\par the right hold the hook in their left hands.  The men on the
\par left hold it in their right.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           Check your equipment.
\par                (he pats his chest)
\par 
\par The men check their straps, weapons and the back pack of the
\par man in front.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           Sound off on check.
\par 
\par                      SGT. STANGE
\par                (shouts)
\par           Number 20, check.
\par                (slaps the rear of the man
\par                 in front)
\par 
\par                      FIRST SOLDIER
\par                (shouts)
\par           19, check.
\par 
\par And does the same.  The count comes forward.
\par 
\par                      LAST SOLDIER
\par                (shouts)
\par           All check.
\par 
\par Dietrich turns to look at the flight engineer.  The chief
\par holds up two fingers.  Dietrich releases his static line and
\par pivots to stand in the door.
\par 
\par SHOT - THE GROUND
\par 
\par INT.  PLANE
\par 
\par The man behind Dietrich in line tugs at his jacket.  Dietrich
\par looks around and sees the flight chief holding up one finger.
\par He steps back into the plane for a moment and raises a
\par clenched fist in an encouraging salute to the men and steps
\par back into the door.
\par 
\par SHOT - DIETRICH
\par 
\par Dietrich coils himself in the door.  His hands are flush
\par against the outside, his head up, his knees flexed, his body
\par straight.  Suddenly the light flashes green and the bell
\par rings in a continuous chilling clamor.  Dietrich springs and
\par is carried away.  The next man pivots blindly into the door
\par and is gone.
\par 
\par VARIOUS SHOTS - THE MEN FALLING FROM THE PLANE
\par 
\par The men are coiled in a bent position against the opening
\par shock.  The prop blast sweeps them back as they fall.  Their
\par static line pulls out the chute.  It stretches out until it
\par breaks away from the static line.  Then the blast whips it
\par back and it cracks open, jerking the man.  He swings down
\par under the canopy.  The three planes are laying men behind
\par them like a fish lays roe.
\par 
\par INT.  PLANE
\par 
\par The left stick has started to move.  Sgt. Stange is bringing
\par up the rear.  The men are practically running out the door
\par now.  Stange comes to the door.  Pausing a moment, he gets
\par set and then uncoils, springing up and out.
\par 
\par AERIAL SHOT - THE THREE STRINGS OF MEN IN THE AIR
\par 
\par AERIAL SHOT - THE GROUND BETWEEN THE FEET OF A JUMPER
\par 
\par SHOT - FROM THE GROUND - THE THREE STICKS APPROACHING
\par 
\par SHOTS - DIETRICH FROM THE GROUND AND AIR
\par 
\par There is a great stillness except for an occasional rustle or
\par crack of a canopy.  Dietrich approaches the ground.  His feet
\par are apart, legs flexed.  He saws back and forth on opposite
\par risers to keep his chute from oscillating dangerously.
\par 
\par He hits the ground with a thump, sinking to his knees and
\par bouncing back to his feet.  He grabs his settling canopy in
\par great armfuls.  He drops to the ground on one knee on top of
\par it.
\par 
\par Tearing at his buckles he gets out of his chute.  Several
\par more jumpers crumple around him.
\par 
\par He works the bolt on his SMG several times to make sure it's
\par working and then trots towards the edge of the field.
\par 
\par VARIOUS SHOTS - MEN LANDING IN THE FIELD
\par 
\par In the stillness the men land with a loud crump.  Some make
\par upright landings.
\par 
\par Others, coming in on a backwards drift or oscillation, land
\par head over heels.
\par 
\par One man injures himself landing with a partially-opened
\par canopy; he is being dragged across the drop zone with a wind-
\par filled canopy when another jumper runs across the path and
\par grabs the chute even before he gets out of his own harness.
\par 
\par LONG SHOT - ANOTHER ANGLE
\par 
\par The men are beginning to move off the drop zone at a crouched
\par trot, their weapons at the ready.  The sergeants are
\par motioning them to move faster.  All is ominously silent
\par except for the panting of the men.
\par 
\par SHOT - MEN IN TREES
\par 
\par Two men have drifted into tall trees at the edge of the drop
\par zone.  Their chutes are tangled in the tops.  They dangle
\par about twenty-five feet from the ground.  Two soldiers on the
\par ground try to help them.
\par 
\par                      SOLDIER ON GROUND
\par           Cut loose the MG, Willy.
\par 
\par                      SOLDIER IN TREE
\par           All right, here it comes.
\par 
\par He cuts the bindings tying the machine gun to his waist and
\par thigh.  It comes crashing down into the underbrush.
\par 
\par SHOT - UP THE TREE - THE MAN AND THE CHUTE
\par 
\par The chute slips a little.  The man twists and untwists in the
\par harness.  He takes out a jump rope and ties it to the
\par harness.  Wrapping one leg around the rope, he cuts loose the
\par harness from his body.  He starts to slide down the rope.
\par The chute pulls loose from the tree and he falls heavily to
\par the ground from about fifteen feet in the air.
\par 
\par SHOT - THE OTHER MAN
\par 
\par The second man dangles lifelessly.  A suspension line is
\par twisted around his neck.  He has strangled.
\par 
\par MEDIUM LONG SHOT - MEN MOVING ALONG EDGE OF DROP ZONE
\par 
\par REVERSE - FROM THE ASSEMBLY AREA
\par 
\par Lt. Dietrich is dispersing the men in position as they come
\par in.  Sgt. Stange is checking the men off a list.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           Demo team move straight back in.
\par           Lt. Bruggemann will put you in
\par           position.
\par                (to men walking)
\par           Move out... Move out.  How many are
\par           we missing, Sergeant Stange?
\par 
\par                      SGT. STANGE
\par           About fifteen, sir.  Most from the
\par           security team.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           Damn.
\par                (to men moving in)
\par           Security team?
\par 
\par                      FIRST SOLDIER
\par                (one of three men)
\par           Yes, sir.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           Where's Lt. Kraus and those two
\par           machine guns?
\par 
\par                      FIRST SOLDIER
\par           I don't know, Lieutenant.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           Move out along the edge about fifty
\par           meters.  Corporal Muench is down
\par           there.
\par 
\par A group of five men of the assault team run up.  Dietrich
\par grins at them.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par                (jokingly)
\par           No tanks yet, Corporal Vollmecke?
\par 
\par PAGE MISSING
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           I'll send this gun down.  Go back
\par           and pick up the other one.  Hurry
\par           along anybody you find.
\par                (he punches Kraus lightly
\par                 in the arm)
\par 
\par                      LT. KRAUS
\par                (surprised and a little
\par                 irritated by Dietrich's
\par                 tone)
\par           All right.
\par 
\par He trots back up the drop zone.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par                (to the gunner)
\par           Move your gun on about twenty meters
\par           to the head of that gully.
\par 
\par The gun team trots off in the other direction along the edge
\par of the woods.
\par 
\par                                              DISSOLVE TO:
\par 
\par EXT.  IN THE WOODS - THE LIEUTENANTS - DAY
\par 
\par The woods slope sharply up hill to a ridge two hundred yards
\par away.  They are pine with occasional scrub oak and lightly
\par scattered bushes.  The ground is damp and matted with leaves.
\par 
\par In the background, hidden or partly hidden, the patrol
\par stretches in a long line ready to go.  Some are standing,
\par others squat.  The men are alternately faced right and left
\par for security.
\par 
\par The lieutenants are squatting on their heels around a map.
\par Sgt. Stange comes up.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par                (looking up)
\par           What's the final count?
\par 
\par                      SGT. STANGE
\par                (standing)
\par           All here, Lieutenant.  Except
\par           Kraeling.  Had to leave him hanging.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           How about the wounded?
\par 
\par                      SGT. STANGE
\par           Fromm won't make it with both legs
\par           broken.  The man who fell from the
\par           tree broke his elbow.  Kraus has set
\par           the bones.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par                (getting up)
\par           Leave Fromm with some food, but get
\par           his SMG.
\par                (to Kraus as they walk)
\par           Send me up two point men.
\par 
\par                      LT. KRAUS
\par           Right.
\par 
\par They split and move through the brush to the patrol.  The men
\par stand up as the lieutenants approach.  They are ready to go.
\par 
\par                                              DISSOLVE TO:
\par 
\par SHOT - DIETRICH AND THE TWO POINT MEN
\par 
\par They are checking compasses.  The sun is cutting through the
\par trees and a slight mist is rising from the damp ground.  It
\par is caught by the bushes and clings to the ground.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           Keep it at 115 degrees until I
\par           change it.  And check each other.
\par           And don't shoot unless you have to.
\par 
\par He motions them forward.  They take one more look at the
\par compasses and move out about twenty yards before Dietrich
\par starts after them.
\par 
\par He glances behind him at the MG team.
\par 
\par They follow him.  The gunner shifts the gun which is across
\par his shoulders like a yoke; the belt of ammo hangs down across
\par his chest.
\par 
\par SHOTS - THE PATROL MOVING OUT THROUGH THE MIST AND BUSHES
\par 
\par The men follow Dietrich.  They push aside the bushes with
\par their hands.  Behind the MG team is Sgt. Stange and the
\par assault team.  They each have their SMG's ready, hanging
\par loosely from one shoulder.
\par 
\par Following the last of the assault team is Lt. Bruggemann.
\par He is leading the heavily ladened demolition team.  They
\par strain forward under the weight of the explosives.
\par 
\par Next are the four climbers.  One has his rope coiled around
\par his waist.  Then the men of the security team follow with the
\par second MG team next to last.  Kraus and two riflemen bring up
\par the rear.
\par 
\par                                              DISSOLVE TO:
\par 
\par EXT.  THE POINT MEN - DAY
\par 
\par The point men move cautiously through the bush.  Now and then
\par they disappear.  The front man checks his compass
\par occasionally.  Suddenly he stops.
\par 
\par SHOT - DIETRICH
\par 
\par Dietrich signals the patrol to stop.  He moves forward to the
\par point men and squats down beside them.
\par 
\par CLOSE - INSERT
\par 
\par Two fairly new looking C-ration tins.
\par 
\par CLOSE - DIETRICH
\par 
\par He exchanges a worried glance with the point men.  Then he
\par motions for absolute stillness and listens to the forest
\par noises, while at the same time scanning the trees before him.
\par 
\par CLOSE - THE POINT MEN
\par 
\par They split their attention between Dietrich and the forest.
\par 
\par LONG SHOT
\par 
\par Dietrich satisfies himself and motions the point men on.
\par They rise and move ahead.  Dietrich and the patrol follow.
\par 
\par SHOT - DIETRICH NEAR - POINT MEN FAR
\par 
\par Point men stop and point to the ground.  Then they move on
\par again.  Dietrich and the patrol come up to the area.
\par Glancing down, Dietrich sees a Superman comic book.
\par 
\par SLOW PAN FOLLOWING POINT MEN
\par 
\par They move down a wooded slope on a diagonal.  THE CAMERA
\par FOLLOWS THEM FROM FULL LEFT TO FULL RIGHT.  They reach the
\par bottom of the gentle slope, push through the thick band of
\par bushes at the bottom and start up the far slope.  THE CAMERA
\par SWINGS FULL RIGHT AND HOLDS FOLLOWING THE POINT MEN.
\par Dietrich comes into view in the foreground.
\par 
\par                                                QUICK CUT:
\par 
\par SHOT - POINT MEN NEAR
\par 
\par They see a movement in the brush ahead about 150 yards up the
\par slope.
\par 
\par SHOT - POINT MEN CROUCHING, SMG'S READY
\par 
\par Dietrich moves up to them at the crouch, very quietly.  He
\par squats beside them.  They point up ahead and Dietrich scans
\par the area.
\par 
\par                      FIRST POINT MAN
\par                (softly)
\par           I saw movement, sir.  About 150
\par           meters up that slope.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           Flank left for one hundred meters.
\par           Keep the area covered but don't
\par           fire.
\par 
\par They nod and Dietrich scrambles back.
\par 
\par DIETRICH AND PATROL
\par 
\par Dietrich half stands.  He raises his arm and pumps it once.
\par Then he motions off to the left.  The patrol flanks left
\par moving at a crouch as silently as possible.
\par 
\par SHOT - THE PATROL
\par 
\par Suddenly several rifle shots crack out followed by a short
\par burst of BAR fire.  The patrol squats immediately,
\par disappearing below the level of the bushes.  The shots crash
\par in the trees behind them and the noise rolls in echoes across
\par the small valley.
\par 
\par SHOT - FEATURING DIETRICH AND MG SERGEANT
\par 
\par Dietrich turns to the MG Sergeant.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par                (with hushed fierceness)
\par           Tell them not to return fire and to
\par           keep moving.  Pass it along.
\par 
\par He moves forward and the patrol, following his lead,
\par continues to flank.  The fire starts again with a M-1
\par emptying an eight round clip as quickly as possible.  The
\par ping of the ejected clip is followed by the crashing sound of
\par the rounds in the trees.
\par 
\par SHOT - THE PATROL
\par 
\par The Germans continue to move.  They change direction at
\par Dietrich's signal and move again on the original azimuth.  A
\par light sun breaks through the trees and cuts the mist away.
\par The patrol reaches the crest of the ridge.
\par 
\par SHOT - THE PATROL
\par 
\par The Germans clear the ridge line and disappear.
\par 
\par                                              DISSOLVE TO:
\par 
\par EXT.  THE POINT MEN AND DIETRICH - ABOVE ROAD - DAY
\par 
\par Dietrich and the point men stand, looking down the slope of
\par the hill at a road curving along the valley.  The heavy
\par growth of pine threes partially conceals it.  They are about
\par 200 yards from the road.
\par 
\par                      FIRST POINT MAN
\par           It's not on the map, Lieutenant.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           Go down and take a look.  Get me an
\par           azimuth.
\par 
\par The point men move off down the slope.
\par 
\par Dietrich motion up the patrol.
\par 
\par They come up and halt.
\par 
\par Dietrich sends back for Bruggemann and Kraus.
\par 
\par They come up on the double.
\par 
\par SHOT - THE THREE LIEUTENANTS SITTING ON THE GROUND
\par 
\par Behind them the patrol is spaced out and well deployed in a
\par defensive perimeter.  The effort of climbing hill after hill
\par at a rapid pace is beginning to tell.  Their shirts are
\par soaked in sweat even in the chilled air.  The slope is steep
\par and many men brace their feet against trees to keep from
\par sliding.  Even while resting, their weapons are ready and
\par they cover alternately right and left.  The three officers
\par are checking their maps.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par                (almost to himself)
\par           One thing's certain.  We don't cross
\par           any roads on the planned course.
\par 
\par                      LT. BRUGGEMANN
\par           According to the map we should reach
\par           the gully very soon.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par                (grimly)
\par           Yes.
\par 
\par The point men struggle back up the slope.
\par 
\par                      FIRST POINT MAN
\par                (breathlessly)
\par           Nothing on the road, Lieutenant.
\par           The azimuth is south 168 degrees.
\par 
\par They flop down on the ground like hunting dogs.  Dietrich
\par carefully studies his map.
\par 
\par                      LT. KRAUS
\par           Those damned Luftwaffe pilots dumped
\par           us on the wrong drop zone.  We're
\par           lost.
\par 
\par                      LT. BRUGGEMANN
\par           Those navigators couldn't find their
\par           way up a rope.
\par 
\par                      LT. KRAUS
\par           I thought that drop zone looked
\par           different.  As if it wasn't bad
\par           enough before -- now we don't even
\par           know where we're going.
\par 
\par Dietrich looks up sharply and breaks into the conversation
\par abruptly.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par                (to Bruggemann)
\par           Take Stange and form two groups for
\par           road crossing with one MG in each.
\par           Take them down by the road.
\par 
\par The three officers get up.  Bruggemann moves off up the slope
\par to find Stange.  Dietrich pulls Kraus off to one side.
\par 
\par TWO SHOTS - DIETRICH AND KRAUS
\par 
\par In the background the patrol moves down the slope and is
\par broken down into two lines paralleling the road.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           What are you thinking about, talking
\par           like that in front of those men.
\par 
\par                      LT. KRAUS
\par                (shrugs)
\par           They know we are lost without me
\par           telling them.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           It's your job to set an example for
\par           them.  You're not going to let me
\par           down, are you?
\par 
\par                      LT. KRAUS
\par           I don't think it's necessary for you
\par           to ask me that question.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par                (after a long, accusative
\par                 look)
\par           Perhaps you're right.  I apologize.
\par 
\par LONG SHOT - THE SLOPE AND ROAD FROM ABOVE
\par 
\par The back firing and roar of a truck engine as it gears down
\par sounds loudly in the valley.  Dietrich and Kraus crouch down
\par and move down slope to the patrol.  They slip and scramble in
\par the stones and bushes.  THE CAMERA FOLLOWS THEM TO Bruggemann
\par and Stange.
\par 
\par SHOT - THE ROAD - MOTOR CONVOY
\par 
\par Around the northern curve of the road 400 yards away rolls a
\par jeep followed by a truck.
\par 
\par In the back of the truck are about fifteen American foot-
\par soldiers.  Mounted on the cab roof is a .50 cal MG manned and
\par ready against planes.
\par 
\par Following the first truck at regular intervals is an entire
\par convoy.  They keep coming around the curve.  THE CAMERA PULLS
\par BACK UP THE SLOPE UNTIL IT CONTAINS THE PATROL.
\par 
\par SHOT - THE OFFICERS AND STANGE (RAIN)
\par 
\par The trucks keep coming.  It starts to rain gently.  The
\par patter of rain on the leaves combines with the swish of tires
\par on the now wet road and the engine noise.  The trucks now tow
\par artillery.
\par 
\par                      SGT. STANGE
\par                (awed and shaking his
\par                 head)
\par           That must be an entire mechanized
\par           division and its artillery.
\par 
\par                      LT. BRUGGEMANN
\par                (grinning)
\par           Think you could handle it, Sergeant
\par           Stange?
\par 
\par                      SGT. STANGE
\par                (awed and shaking his
\par                 head)
\par           That's the way we were in Russia.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           Move along the lines Sgt. Stange.
\par           Tell the men to stay put and keep
\par           still.  Have the second group face
\par           up-hill.
\par 
\par Stange slips off along the two lines of men.  The officers
\par sit silent and the trucks keep coming.  The rain now falls
\par more heavily.
\par 
\par                                              DISSOLVE TO:
\par 
\par THE SAME SCENE
\par 
\par It is now raining steadily.  The road is clear.  The lines of
\par men are standing silently in the rain.  Dietrich is placing
\par the second MG in position to cover the road during the
\par crossing.  He points and the MG team goes in place.
\par 
\par SHOTS
\par 
\par The first line moves down the hill and up to the edge of the
\par embankment, crouching and ready.  Behind them the second wave
\par waits to go into position.
\par 
\par SHOTS
\par 
\par There is a long, tense silence as everyone listens for
\par approaching trucks.  Everything is silent.  No trucks.
\par Dietrich waves his hand forward and the first wave led by
\par Kraus and Stange drops over the embankment.  Immediately the
\par second wave falls into position behind them.
\par 
\par SHOTS - THE FIRST WAVE ON THE ROAD
\par 
\par They slide down the muddy embankment into the near drainage
\par ditch.  Slipping and falling in the greasy, red mud they
\par scramble out onto the road and pound across leaving red mud
\par tracked on the black asphalt road.  The rain begins to melt
\par it into a red stain.
\par 
\par They scramble up the far embankment.  The rain has made it
\par very slippery and many fall back.
\par 
\par Some leap clear across the far ditch and stick right in the
\par bank, kicking toe holds and clawing up.
\par 
\par SHOTS
\par 
\par From around the curve comes the back fire of an approaching
\par truck.  Several men are still floundering in the ditch.  Men
\par reach down and give them hands up.  Stange reaches down and
\par grabs up the last man by the scruff of his uniform and hauls
\par him bodily up into the bushes just as the truck clears the
\par corner.
\par 
\par CLOSE SHOT - THE EMBANKMENT
\par 
\par The section of the embankment where the men scrambled up is
\par torn up and conspicuous.  The CAMERA SLOWLY DRAWS BACK.  The
\par rain has smeared the mud into a wide, red stain.  DRAWING
\par BACK FARTHER THE CAMERA PICKS UP THE TRUCK ON THE LEFT.  The
\par truck skids slightly on the mud and rolls on.  The driver is
\par concentrating on the road.  It disappears around the south
\par curve.
\par 
\par SHOT - THE ROAD
\par 
\par The rain starts a sudden, fierce, noisy downpour.  It
\par splatters heavy drops on the asphalt.  Suddenly, the second
\par wave bursts out of the bushes and leaps down the embankment.
\par They stumble across the ditch and out on the road.
\par 
\par QUICK CUT - THE NORTHERN CURVE
\par 
\par A jeep rounds the curve followed quickly by another.  They
\par are a motorized patrol.  The noise of the rain has concealed
\par their approach.  Both are open and mounting a .50 cal MG on a
\par pedestal mount.  Each carries a driver, scout, gunner and
\par assistant gunner.
\par 
\par QUICK CUT - THE SECOND WAVE
\par 
\par The Germans see the jeeps and dive across the road into the
\par far ditch.
\par 
\par QUICK CUT - THE JEEPS
\par 
\par The first jeep sees the men crossing.  It tries to stop but
\par skids in the mud and spins off the road to the left.  The
\par second jeep stops.  The gunner opens fire.
\par 
\par SHOT - THE SECOND JEEP - 100 YARDS AWAY
\par 
\par Fire from the second jeep plows the embankment behind the men
\par in the ditch, preventing them from moving.
\par 
\par SHOT - BRUGGEMANN AND THE MG TEAM
\par 
\par Bruggemann jerks the MG gunner up and helps him jam his gun
\par into firing position, shouting to get the jeep on the road.
\par The gun opens up.  Its fire is high but it draws the .50 cal
\par fire.
\par 
\par SHOT - THE FIRST JEEP IN THE DITCH
\par 
\par The first jeep is stuck in the mud.  The driver races the
\par engine and tries to jockey it out but it sinks deeper.  The
\par gunner opens fire and the others roll off into the ditch.
\par The rounds ricochet off the asphalt and scream off into the
\par woods across the road.
\par 
\par SHOT - DIETRICH IN THE DITCH
\par 
\par Dietrich scramble crab-like up the ditch towards the second
\par jeep.  He cradles his SMG in his left hand and plucks out a
\par grenade with his other.  He gets part way to the jeep before
\par the scout in the front seat spots him.
\par 
\par SHOT - THE JEEP
\par 
\par The scout fires at Dietrich with his carbine.  The jeep's
\par wheels scream as the driver gives it the gas, but the
\par traction is bad on the rain-slick pavement and the jeep slews
\par sideways before it can build up speed.
\par 
\par SHOT - DIETRICH
\par 
\par Dietrich skids up against the lip of the ditch on his belly
\par and underhands a grenade beneath the rear of the jeep.
\par 
\par SHOT - THE JEEP
\par 
\par The explosion turns the jeep on its side.  The wheels spin
\par wildly in the air.  It topples over.  The wheels continue to
\par spin.
\par 
\par SHOT - THE MG OF THE FIRST WAVE ON THE EMBANKMENT
\par 
\par Stange has finally gotten the first MG into action.  It opens
\par fire.  From the rear of the gun THE CAMERA MOVES IN CLOSE
\par UNTIL IT IS LOOKING ALONG THE AXIS OF SIGHT.  The first burst
\par is off to the right.  The gunner shifts the burst onto the
\par jeep and holds the fire on it.  THE CAMERA MOVES FORWARD
\par TOWARD THE JEEP.  The rounds chew up the jeep and splatter in
\par the mud embankment behind it.  The gunner is killed
\par instantly.  THE CAMERA MOVES CLOSER.  Suddenly the jeep
\par explodes, a tracer igniting the gasoline from the ruptured
\par gas tank.
\par 
\par REVERSE - TOWARD THE GERMANS WITH JEEP IN FOREGROUND
\par 
\par The American scout runs screaming up on the road.  His
\par clothes are on fire.  All the others are dead.
\par 
\par SHOT - THE GERMANS IN THE DITCH
\par 
\par The American jumps into the ditch and rolls in the mud.
\par Several Germans nearby beat out the flames with their hands.
\par 
\par SHOTS - DIETRICH
\par 
\par Dietrich runs down the ditch, yelling for them to get up the
\par embankment.
\par 
\par Bruggemann is pushing the MG team up the bank.  They hand up
\par the wounded.
\par 
\par The prisoner is shoved up the bank by Bruggemann.  Two men
\par lie dead in the ditch.  Another of the wounded dies as he is
\par being passed up the embankment.  They lay him down gently in
\par the mud.
\par 
\par Dietrich is shouting for them to clear the road; he urges
\par them with vigor.  He and Bruggemann are the last to leave.
\par Several men pull them up.
\par 
\par SHOT - THE ROAD
\par 
\par The road is quiet except for the burning roar of the
\par gasoline.  The area is a mess of broken equipment, tracked
\par mud and smoke.  The dead lie quietly in the ditch or on the
\par road.
\par 
\par EXT.  THE PATROL MOVING IN THE WOODS UP THE SLOPE - DAY
\par 
\par The patrol is moving at a fast pace.  Dietrich drops back
\par along the column to urge the men forward faster.  They are
\par moving at almost a trot.  He races back towards the front.
\par He is carrying one of the MG's plus his own weapon.  They are
\par moving up a long, wide wash that is clogged with brush.
\par 
\par There are rocks of a dried-up water course underfoot.  In
\par many places they are concealed with a matting of leaves.  The
\par rain is no longer falling but the sky is threatening.
\par 
\par SHOT - THE MEN
\par 
\par Their mouths are open gasping for breath.  Their uniforms are
\par steaming from their body heat.  They pay attention to nothing
\par but the ground underfoot and the steps of the man in front.
\par Their only thought is to keep up the pace.
\par 
\par SHOT - BRUGGEMANN AND PRISONER
\par 
\par In the middle of the column, Bruggemann is pushing the
\par prisoner ahead of him.  The American is hurt from his wounds
\par and in a daze at being captured so unexpectedly.  He slips on
\par a rock and Bruggemann quickly pulls him up by his belt.
\par 
\par SHOT - DIETRICH AND WOUNDED MEN
\par 
\par Dietrich is helping one of the wounded German up the wash by
\par the seat of his pants.  The man bleeds to death from a wound
\par in his neck and in the rush and falls face down.  The men
\par behind them pass around as Dietrich bends down and turns him
\par over.  The man is staring straight ahead; his face is very
\par white under the grime.  He is a demo man.  Dietrich unbuckles
\par his demo pack, shifts the MG to one shoulder and swings the
\par pack over the other.  He closes the man's eyes with a sweep
\par of his hand.  Standing up, he turns to the stragglers in the
\par rear.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par                (shouting)
\par           Hurry up.
\par 
\par                                              DISSOLVE TO:
\par 
\par EXT.  PATROL ON A HILLTOP - DAY
\par 
\par The members of the patrol are widely deployed in various
\par attitudes of alert exhaustion.  Some men are still straggling
\par up.  Stange is in the rear of them, encouraging them on and
\par half-carrying a wounded man.  He reaches the top and gently
\par lowers him to the ground.  The wounded man begins to gingerly
\par unlace his boot.  Dietrich calls Stange over.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           We're not going to be here long,
\par           sergeant.  First, get security out.
\par           Then I want a complete status report
\par           on dead, wounded and missing.  Also
\par           on any significant ammo shortages.
\par 
\par Bruggemann comes up.
\par 
\par                      LT. BRUGGEMANN
\par           I've got that prisoner over here,
\par           Lieutenant Dietrich.
\par 
\par Dietrich turns his attention to the prisoner.
\par 
\par SHOT - THE PRISONER
\par 
\par The prisoner is sitting on the ground by a fallen tree.  He
\par is hunched over, supporting his left arm by cradling the
\par elbow in his right hand.  His clothes are scorched and his
\par hair and eyebrows are singed.
\par 
\par SHOT - FAVORING DIETRICH, KRAUS AND BRUGGEMANN - MEDIC AND
\par PRISONER IN B.G.
\par 
\par In b.g. the medic opens his kit bag.  He whips out his knife
\par and cuts open the man's shirt.  The medic begins to spread
\par salve from a tube on the burns.  The prisoner looks over
\par anxiously as the officers inspect his things.
\par 
\par                      LT. BRUGGEMANN
\par                (squatting on the ground)
\par           Here are his personal effects.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par                (going through them)
\par           Nothing here.  He's Corporal Robert
\par           John Scott, 323rd Reconnaissance
\par           Company.  It's on these orders here.
\par                (looks at the dog tags)
\par           Serial 17147358.  Protestant.
\par                (he looks through the
\par                 billfold)
\par           Money.  Photo of girl friend.  Photo
\par           of a dog.  Looks like a Weimaraner.
\par           I used to have one.
\par                (he throws the inspected
\par                 things in a little pile
\par                 in the ground)
\par           Letters from home.
\par                (he discards these and
\par                 shakes the odds and ends
\par                 in his hands)
\par 
\par                      LT. BRUGGEMANN
\par           He can tell us where we are.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           I am aware of that, Bruggemann.
\par 
\par He tosses Bruggemann a stick of the prisoner's gum and
\par gathers up all the things in his hands.  The medic is
\par finishing the bandaging.  Dietrich stands up and walks over.
\par 
\par LOW ANGLE - DIETRICH ABOVE MEDIC AND PRISONER
\par 
\par                      MEDIC
\par           All done, sir.  He'll be all right.
\par                (exits)
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           Good morning, Corporal Scott.
\par           Feeling pretty under the weather, I
\par           suppose.
\par 
\par                      CORPORAL
\par           I'm not complaining.
\par 
\par Dietrich places the man's personal belongings on the ground.
\par The prisoner tries to resist the temptation to grab them
\par eagerly.  With a studied casual air he stuffs them back into
\par his pockets.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           You'll find everything untouched.
\par 
\par                      CORPORAL
\par           Thanks.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           I must pay you a compliment,
\par           corporal.
\par 
\par                      CORPORAL
\par           Oh?
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           Very few men would have been able to
\par           experience what you have just gone
\par           through with as few ill effects as
\par           you have.
\par 
\par                      CORPORAL
\par           I wish my lieutenant could hear
\par           that.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par                (laughs cordially)
\par           Like a cigarette?
\par 
\par                      CORPORAL
\par           Thanks.
\par 
\par They both light up.  Dietrich exhales as if he has nothing to
\par do but sit and chat.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par                (charmingly)
\par           Don't say it.  I admit your American
\par           cigarettes are much better but they
\par           are rather difficult to buy just
\par           now.
\par 
\par                      CORPORAL
\par                (grudgingly laughs)
\par           Say, I know you're supposed to be
\par           asking the questions but do you mind
\par           if I ask you one?
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           Certainly not.  Besides, please
\par           don't regard this as an
\par           interrogation.
\par 
\par                      CORPORAL
\par           Well then, what in the hell is going
\par           on -- another invasion?
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par                (laughs amiably)
\par           I should say happily not.  We were
\par           cut off from our outfit in the
\par           retreat Wednesday and we're trying
\par           to make our way back.
\par 
\par                      CORPORAL
\par                (weighting the truth of
\par                 Dietrich's statement)
\par           Why don't you guys just call it a
\par           day?
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           We have our orders just like you.
\par           We're just trying to stay alive
\par           until the war ends.
\par 
\par                      CORPORAL
\par           If you'd like to surrender, I'll be
\par           happy to take you in.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par                (laughs)
\par           Well, not just yet, corporal.
\par           Though I thank you for your offer.
\par 
\par                      CORPORAL
\par           What are you going to do with me?
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           Oh, you're free to go any time you
\par           want to.  We obviously can't take
\par           you with us.
\par 
\par                      CORPORAL
\par           Do you mean that?
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           You have my word, corporal.  But
\par           there's just one favor I'd like to
\par           ask.
\par 
\par                      CORPORAL
\par                (suspiciously)
\par           What is it?
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           This won't be anything to compromise
\par           the American war effort, I assure
\par           you.  We are leaving behind our
\par           seriously wounded and we'd like to
\par           get them medical attention as soon
\par           as possible.  They will be your
\par           prisoners, of course.
\par 
\par                      CORPORAL
\par           Well, that's a new twist.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           How's that?
\par 
\par                      CORPORAL
\par           I mean okay, Lieutenant.  Okay.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           Some of them are badly hurt.  How
\par           long do you think it will take you
\par           to bring help back?
\par 
\par                      CORPORAL
\par           The battalion aid station is about
\par           four miles up the road.  I guess I
\par           can walk there in an hour and come
\par           back with some transport pretty
\par           quick.
\par 
\par Dietrich had hoped to hear the name of a town.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par                (smiling)
\par           That sounds wonderful, corporal.  I
\par           hope it's set up near a town where
\par           these men can get some first-class
\par           treatment.
\par 
\par                      CORPORAL
\par           Don't worry about that.  They'll get
\par           the best.
\par 
\par A momentary pause, then Dietrich forces a smile.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           Fine... fine.  You know, it's
\par           amazing there's anything left of our
\par           towns.  You Yanks really did a
\par           thorough job on them.
\par 
\par                      CORPORAL
\par           Yeah, that's true.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           Say, I just happened to remember.  I
\par           hope that town isn't Obernburg.  The
\par           last I heard from out regimental
\par           headquarters is that artillery had
\par           that scheduled for a heavy
\par           concentration.
\par 
\par                      CORPORAL
\par           No, Obernburg is north of here.  The
\par           hospital's safe enough.  It's in a
\par           little dinky village called
\par           Mungersdorf.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par                (smiles pleasantly)
\par           Thank you very much, Corporal Scott.
\par           I'll have my sergeant help you get
\par           ready for your journey.
\par 
\par                      CORPORAL
\par           Okay, Lieutenant.  I've got to say
\par           you've been a good Joe.  When the
\par           war's over, if you ever come to
\par           Detroit, look me up.  I'm in the
\par           phone book.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           I'll certainly do that.
\par                (exits)
\par 
\par SHOT - SGT. STANGE AND LT. BRUGGEMANN
\par 
\par Bruggemann is cleaning his weapon.  Stange stands as Dietrich
\par comes over grinning.  He speaks softly so that the prisoner
\par cannot hear.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           Let's see a map.  I should have been
\par           in an intelligence interrogation
\par           section.  I'd be a major by now.
\par                (he spreads out the map
\par                 eagerly)
\par           Mungersdorf.  I though so.  It's
\par           close by the bridge.  The road we
\par           crossed runs south from it and
\par           parallels the Main.  We crossed
\par           about fourteen kilometers south on
\par           the road which is about there.
\par 
\par They edge over to see where he is pointing.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           And here's our present position on
\par           this hill two kilometers west of
\par           the road.
\par 
\par                      LT. BRUGGEMANN
\par                (glancing at his watch)
\par           It's 1300 now.  We should make the
\par           river by not later than 1700.
\par 
\par SHOT - LT. KRAUS APPROACHING GROUP
\par 
\par                      LT. KRAUS
\par                (loudly)
\par           Well, has our American told us how
\par           to get to the Obernburg bridge yet?
\par 
\par SHOT - THE PRISONER
\par 
\par The prisoner looks up quickly and then looks down again.
\par 
\par REVERSE - THE LIEUTENANTS
\par 
\par They all rise.  Bruggemann has a disgusted look on his face.
\par Dietrich is restraining his anger and Kraus looks white.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par                (under his breath)
\par           In one day you seem to have lost all
\par           the experience you have gained in
\par           four years of war.
\par 
\par                      LT. KRAUS
\par           I'm sorry, Paul.  I wasn't thinking.
\par           I was careless.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           That's fine!  What are we supposed
\par           to do with the prisoner now?
\par 
\par                      LT. BRUGGEMANN
\par           We certainly can't release him.
\par 
\par                      LT. KRAUS
\par           Well, I guess we'll have to take him
\par           along with us.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par                (softly)
\par           Don't add stupidity to your
\par           carelessness.  That would be
\par           impossible.  We will have to shoot
\par           him.
\par 
\par                      LT. KRAUS
\par           You can't do that!
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           I suggest you lower your voice.  You
\par           have made enough trouble already.
\par 
\par                      LT. KRAUS
\par                (in a lower tone)
\par           There must be another way.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           I am only doing what is necessary to
\par           protect the lives of our own men.
\par 
\par                      LT. KRAUS
\par           Paul, in the name of God, don't do
\par           it.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           Your carelessness is the cause of
\par           the prisoner's death just as well as
\par           the bullet that kills him.
\par 
\par Kraus glares at Dietrich, unable to express his anger.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par                (softly but with great
\par                 menace)
\par           Oskar, try to regain control of your
\par           nerves.  Try to remember you are an
\par           officer.  Try to remember I am in
\par           command.
\par 
\par CLOSE - KRAUS
\par 
\par He stares in bewilderment at his friend for several seconds,
\par then turns and walks away.
\par 
\par TWO SHOT - DIETRICH AND BRUGGEMANN
\par 
\par Sgt. Stange approaches.
\par 
\par                      SGT. STANGE
\par           The men are in a perimeter,
\par           Lieutenant.  I've got an outpost
\par           down the slope towards the road.
\par           We've got fifty men not counting
\par           yourselves.  Six wounded.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par                (to Stange)
\par           Re-form the men to move out.
\par 
\par                      SGT. STANGE
\par           Yes, sir.
\par                (he exits)
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par                (to Bruggemann)
\par           Form a detail of two men and stay
\par           with the prisoner until we move out.
\par           When the last man gets out of sight,
\par           shoot him.  When you return say that
\par           he tried to attack you.
\par 
\par                      LT. BRUGGEMANN
\par           Yes, sir.
\par                (confidentially)
\par           If I may, sir, I suggest you keep an
\par           eye on Lieutenant Kraus.  I don't
\par           feel very safe with him any more.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           When I need your advice, Lieutenant,
\par           I'll ask for it.  Carry out your
\par           orders.
\par 
\par                      LT. BRUGGEMANN
\par           Yes, sir.
\par                (he exits)
\par 
\par The patrol moves out.
\par 
\par                                              DISSOLVE TO:
\par 
\par EXT.  FAVORING KRAUS - THE PATROL DISPERSED THROUGH THE
\par FOREST - DAY
\par 
\par Just the forest sounds.  Each man intently studying the
\par foliage in front of him.  A single shot suddenly echoes and
\par reverberates through the forest.  Everyone freezes.  After
\par some seconds, Lieutenant Bruggemann and two men come puffing
\par into view from the rear.
\par 
\par                      LT. BRUGGEMANN
\par                (as he passes through)
\par           The prisoner tried to attack us and
\par           we had to shoot him.
\par 
\par Orders are given to move out.  They move.
\par 
\par                                              DISSOLVE TO:
\par 
\par EXT.  LONG SHOT - SLOW PAN - MID-AFTERNOON
\par 
\par THE CAMERA SLOWLY MOVES FROM FAR LEFT TO FAR RIGHT AND BACK
\par AGAIN as if the area were being scanned by a scout.  The
\par wooded hills have stopped as the terrain slopes down toward
\par the Main River.
\par 
\par In front is an open valley.
\par 
\par Both hillsides are completely cleared and plowed for spring
\par planting.
\par 
\par They slope down to a small dry stream bed edged on both sides
\par by a narrow band of trees and bushes.
\par 
\par This stream is the beginning of the gully leading to the
\par Main.  It offers the only covered route across the bare
\par fields.
\par 
\par SHOT - DIETRICH, BRUGGEMANN AND KRAUS
\par 
\par They are standing on the edge of the woods.  The patrol
\par stretches behind them, squatting or kneeling.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par                (curtly)
\par           Kraus, take three more of your men
\par           and move forward with the point as
\par           an advanced guard.  We will move
\par           down the gully to the river.  It
\par           should be about eight kilometers.
\par 
\par Lt. Krause nods and moves out.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           One moment.  I have too much respect
\par           for you as a soldier to believe you
\par           will allow your personal feelings to
\par           interfere with your duty to your
\par           men.
\par 
\par                      LT. KRAUS
\par           I hope I don't disappoint you.
\par 
\par The lieutenants split and the patrol gets to its feet,
\par anticipating the move.
\par 
\par Kraus brings up three more men and the six-man advanced guard
\par trots out of the woods into the narrow stream bed.
\par 
\par The patrol follows.
\par 
\par                                              DISSOLVE TO:
\par 
\par LONG SHOT - THE VALLEY
\par 
\par The gully has deepened slightly and the trees and bushes are
\par slightly thicker.
\par 
\par The hills on both sides have risen higher as the valley drops
\par towards the Main.
\par 
\par Ahead on a slight spur leading out from the hill of the left
\par is a two story stone farmhouse.
\par 
\par SHOT - LOW ANGLE - THE HOUSE FROM THE GULLY - 400 YARDS AWAY
\par 
\par The house is a dull grey but has sheds built against it of
\par white-painted wood.  It is partially destroyed by artillery
\par fire.  It seems completely deserted; the windows are
\par shuttered and the doors closed.  No smoke comes from the
\par chimney.  The yard is muddy with the recent rains.  On the
\par spur it completely commands the valley.
\par 
\par SHOT - THE GULLY
\par 
\par Kraus' group moves cautiously along the gully.  They are
\par split, three on each side.  Kraus in the lead.  The stream
\par bed is of white, limestone rocks.  There are standing pools
\par of water.  Both banks are fringed with bushes and occasional
\par poplars and oaks.  The men are concentrating their attention
\par on the house up ahead.  It dominates the gully.
\par 
\par LONG SHOT - ADVANCED PARTY AND HOUSE IN B.G.
\par 
\par The six men move forward at a crouch.  They seem to be
\par wanting to sit down and are barely restraining themselves.
\par The tension is evident in the hunch of their shoulders and
\par the flex of their backs.  They are about 300 yards from the
\par house and 300 yards from the main group.
\par 
\par SHOT - THE ADVANCED PARTY AND HOUSE IN B.G.
\par 
\par Suddenly the stillness of the house is broken by the barking
\par of a dog in one of the sheds.  He quits barking with a yelp
\par as if struck.  Suddenly two unseen MG's in the yard open fire
\par on the advanced party.
\par 
\par SHOT - THE ADVANCED PARTY
\par 
\par Two men on the far side of the gully away from the house are
\par struck immediately and dropped.
\par 
\par The other dives across to the bank sheltering the three on
\par that side.
\par 
\par The gully is filled with the whine of ricochets off the rocks
\par of the stream bed.
\par 
\par The rounds also slash the bushes on the bank and chew up the
\par dirt.
\par 
\par The elevation of the American MG's gives them a good angle on
\par the gully and they pin the men tightly against the bank.
\par 
\par SHOT - KRAUS AND THE THREE MEN
\par 
\par Kraus crouches against the bank, pressing tightly to the
\par slight overhang as if his life depended on it.
\par 
\par The three men glance at him and decide to do the same.
\par 
\par The MG's criss-cross their fire and the ricochets and rock
\par chips whir.
\par 
\par SHOT - DIETRICH AND THE MAIN BODY
\par 
\par Dietrich and the main body have squatted at the sound of the
\par firing up ahead.
\par 
\par They are split into two columns on each side of the stream
\par bed.  They stretch back up the gully, squatting and ready,
\par looking like dark birds against the white limestone gravel
\par and boulders.
\par 
\par Dietrich turns and waves up Bruggemann.  Stange appears at
\par his elbow.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par                (to Stange)
\par           Get those three MG teams up here
\par           quickly.
\par 
\par Stange pivots without a word and runs off just as Bruggemann
\par arrives.  He couches beside Dietrich who has turned and is
\par looking towards the fighting.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par                (out loud to himself)
\par           Where is that damn connecting file.
\par           He must have gotten pinned.
\par 
\par                      LT. BRUGGEMANN
\par           Why doesn't Kraus open up?
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par                (grimly)
\par           We will see whether you can do it
\par           better.  Take that number one MG and
\par           move up to Kraus.  I want to hear
\par           the heaviest volume of fire since
\par           Stalingrad.
\par                (he looks around)
\par           I'm taking Stange and the other two.
\par           We'll move up on the left.  When you
\par           see a smoke grenade lift fire and
\par           move on down the gully.
\par 
\par SHOT - THE MACHINE GUN TEAMS
\par 
\par The MG teams dash up the gully.  Stange, in the lead, motions
\par them to squat down.
\par 
\par SHOT - BRUGGEMANN AND FIRST TEAM
\par 
\par Bruggemann motions the first team to follow him.  In the lead
\par with his SMG at the ready, he leads them around the bend in
\par the wash.
\par 
\par They are moving forward at a crouch.  They hug the left bank,
\par sometimes balancing themselves against it with their free
\par hand.
\par 
\par Bruggemann leads with the gunner right behind.  He has a belt
\par hanging from the gun.  He is stout and has trouble keeping
\par up.
\par 
\par Behind them are the assistant gunner and the two ammo
\par bearers.  Each has his weapon slung and two containers of
\par ammo in his hands.
\par 
\par The volume of American MG fire grows louder as they
\par disappear.
\par 
\par SHOT - HIGH ANGLE - FROM THE MAIN BODY TO THE HOUSE
\par 
\par The house has a layer of smoke hanging around it close to the
\par ground.  THE CAMERA LOOKS FROM THE TROOPS IN THE GULLY UP
\par ALONG A FENCE RUNNING ACROSS A ROAD AND TO THE LEFT OF THE
\par HOUSE.
\par 
\par The house seems to loom above the gully dominating it.  The
\par fence running up to it attracts the eye as a logical
\par approach.
\par 
\par SHOT - DIETRICH AND STANGE LOOKING AT THE HOUSE IN B.G.
\par 
\par SHOT - DIETRICH AND STANGE - ANOTHER ANGLE
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par                (still looking)
\par           That damn thing sweeps the whole
\par           valley and there's no defilade when
\par           that road fords the wash.
\par 
\par Sgt. Stange nods.  Dietrich pulls a map from his tunic.  He
\par smooths it across his knee and studies it for several
\par moments.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           There isn't any other approach to
\par           the bridge.
\par 
\par Stange frowns and nods dismally.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par                (gravely)
\par           We'll have to take that house.
\par 
\par SHOT - BRUGGEMANN AND THE FIRST MG TEAM
\par 
\par On hands and knees Bruggemann leads the team forward.  They
\par are scrambling awkwardly along trying not to expose
\par themselves.  They look like crabs.  They stoop, shuffle,
\par crouch, fall, scramble, stumble and waddle forward.  The bank
\par is too low to make for a graceful advance.
\par 
\par The fire is loud and violent.  The whine of ricochets is a
\par steady buzz.
\par 
\par SHOT - THE ADVANCED PARTY PINNED DOWN
\par 
\par The men are still pinned against the bank and have not
\par returned fire.
\par 
\par Kraus seems to have almost nudged his way into a small
\par excavation in the bank.  He has his legs drawn up tightly,
\par protecting his stomach against the ricochets.
\par 
\par The Americans are alternating fire in a regular pattern of
\par bursts to save their barrels.
\par 
\par Suddenly an MG from the main party opens with a long burst
\par searching the house.
\par 
\par The Germans turn their heads and look back up the stream bed
\par hopefully.
\par 
\par SHOT - UPSTREAM WITH ADVANCED PARTY PINNED IN FOREGROUND
\par 
\par Around the bend scramble the MG team led by Bruggemann.  They
\par scramble up to the advanced party.
\par 
\par Bruggemann slams the gunner down where he wants the gun and
\par helps him hoist it up on the bank.  The assistant gunner
\par pants up and throws himself down by the gun banging the ammo
\par can on the rocks.
\par 
\par                      LT. BRUGGEMANN
\par                (shouting)
\par           Get it firing.
\par                (turning to the advanced
\par                 party)
\par           Get up and fire your weapons.
\par 
\par He pounds the closest man on the rear with his hand.
\par Slipping his SMG from his shoulder he eases it across the
\par edge of the bank just as the MG begins to fire.  Bruggemann's
\par fire chops the bushes.
\par 
\par He scramble along the bank pounding the men on the legs and
\par backs, shoving them up to fire.
\par 
\par                      LT. BRUGGEMANN
\par                (shouting)
\par           Fire, damn you, fire.  Don't worry
\par           about those damn Americans.  Fire.
\par           Fire.
\par 
\par SHOTS - THE ADVANCED PARTY
\par 
\par The German fire is building up.  The men are firing short
\par bursts from their SMG's ducking down and popping back up to
\par fire off another.
\par 
\par The MG assistant gunner is calmly shouting off range
\par adjustments as the gunner rips off short bursts and hunches
\par around to hit another area.
\par 
\par Bruggemann has ducked down to reload.  He tears off his
\par magazine and slams another in its place.  Getting up he
\par squeezes off a short burst.
\par 
\par He flops down beside Kraus.
\par 
\par TWO SHOT - BRUGGEMANN AND KRAUS
\par 
\par Kraus doesn't even look up but sticks his shoulder deeper
\par into the embankment.
\par 
\par Bruggemann sticks his face close and shouts above the din.
\par 
\par                      LT. BRUGGEMANN
\par                (each word a curse)
\par           Why the hell didn't you open fire?
\par 
\par                      LT. KRAUS
\par                (trembling and
\par                 demoralized)
\par           What does it matter?  They've got us
\par           pinned down and blocked from the
\par           river.  We have no other way.
\par 
\par                      LT. BRUGGEMANN
\par                (slaps him across the
\par                 mouth)
\par           Shut up, damn you.  I would kill you
\par           here if you weren't the chosen
\par           friend of Lt. Dietrich.
\par                (he rises to crouch; in
\par                 disgust)
\par           Stay there and sweat.
\par 
\par SHOT - THE GULLY, THE MEN FIRING TOWARDS THE HOUSE IN B.G.
\par 
\par The fire crackles in rising and falling waves with the steady
\par burst of the MG providing a base.
\par 
\par One of the advanced party gets hit and sinks forward.  No one
\par notices.  CAMERA MOVES CLOSER.
\par 
\par SHOT - THE MACHINE GUN TEAM
\par 
\par The assistant gunner flicks the empty can away and gropes to
\par his rear for another one.  He looks around for it and is hit
\par instantly and killed.
\par 
\par An ammo bearer reaches up as if to shake his hand and pulls
\par him into the wash.  He scrambles up beside the gun with a new
\par belt.
\par 
\par The gunner loads it without noticing the new man.
\par 
\par SHOT - ALONG THE AXIS OF THE MG - HOUSE IN B.G.
\par 
\par The gunner fires in bursts of five or six rounds.
\par 
\par The house is about two hundred fifty yards away.  It shakes
\par and shudders as the gun vibrates.  The rounds whip a cloud of
\par dust into the yard.
\par 
\par The American guns flash little spurts of yellow-white flame
\par and the smoke from their guns hangs in a layer in the yard.
\par 
\par Spotting one MG in a shed, the German gunner shifts his fire.
\par The rounds spray the yard in front and splatter in the shed.
\par The wood splinters and the gun chews at the door.
\par 
\par The American gun answers with a series of flashes.  The
\par tracers from the guns seem to cross.
\par 
\par SHOT - THE HOUSE IN B.G., FENCE AND BUSHES IN F.G.
\par 
\par SUDDENLY THE CAMERA CATCHES TWO FIGURES SLIDE OUT ACROSS THE
\par EDGE OF THE GULLY.  Dietrich is starting to move out his men.
\par 
\par In the far right on the other side of the fence, Stange is
\par directing the second gun.
\par 
\par Another group of three men clear the edge and crouch-run in
\par the cover of the fence.
\par 
\par An American MG fires and the rounds clip the bushes along the
\par fence and whine off the stones.
\par 
\par One man is hit in the face and is blinded.  He stumbles and
\par is screaming for help as he gropes forward.  One of the three
\par stops back for him.  Grabbing him by the shirt he half lifts
\par half pulls him forward, scrambling himself in a half-crouch.
\par 
\par A volley of American rifle shots catch them.  There is a
\par desperate effort by the rescuer as the blinded German claws
\par forward.  They fall under a vortex of shots.
\par 
\par SHOT - DIETRICH ALONG THE FENCE ON HIS STOMACH
\par 
\par Dietrich looks back.  The dead men look like crumpled mounds
\par of dirty clothes.
\par 
\par SHOT - DIETRICH CROUCHING
\par 
\par He fires a long burst across the fence at the yard of the
\par farmhouse.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par                (shouting toward the
\par                 gully)
\par           Get that damn MG up.  Get it up.
\par 
\par The MG team clears the bank at a dead crouch-run.
\par 
\par SHOT - ALONG THE FENCE FROM SUNKEN ROAD
\par 
\par In the foreground about four men are firing rifles at the
\par farmhouse.
\par 
\par Along the fence the MG team pounds in a furious sprint.
\par 
\par Dietrich is in their rear firing the SMG.
\par 
\par SHOT - THE HOUSE IN B.G., THE FENCE WITH RUNNING MG TEAM IN
\par F.G.
\par 
\par THE CAMERA PANS A LONG SHOT.
\par 
\par The MG team is desperately tearing for the shelter of the
\par road.
\par 
\par The Americans open fire with the MG.  It cuts at the bushes.
\par 
\par Dietrich is running now and stopping to fire short bursts.
\par 
\par The MG team reaches the edge of the road.  They dive across
\par the road and hit the ditch.  Dietrich follows.
\par 
\par SHOT - ALONG THE ROAD
\par 
\par The road is cut into the hill and is slightly below the
\par house.  It is cut on the side facing the house.
\par 
\par The fence is gated across the road and runs on the other
\par side, past the side and rear of the house and on into an
\par orchard.
\par 
\par The Germans are huddled together, still on the opposite side
\par of the fence from the house.
\par 
\par Dietrich crawls along the ditch to the fence.  The men are
\par behind him.  The gunner cradling his weapon in one arm as he
\par crawls on the other.
\par 
\par SHOT - THE DITCH
\par 
\par Dietrich tears off the wire below the regular fence line
\par blocking the ditch.
\par 
\par He crawls through and the men follow him.  He points to the
\par position for the MG.  The team slams the gun into position.
\par 
\par The men begin firing their rifles.  The gunner slams the bolt
\par closed and the gun erupts into fire.
\par 
\par SHOT - THE HOUSE
\par 
\par The yard and the house are sheathed in smoke.  One gun had
\par been silenced.  Now all three German guns are spraying the
\par yard and chewing up the fence and sheds.
\par 
\par The German riflemen are within one hundred fifty yards of the
\par house and have the windows and doors under constant fire.
\par 
\par REVERSE - ACROSS THE ROAD TOWARDS THE GULLY
\par 
\par The gully is hung with smoke.  Occasionally small muzzle
\par flashes can be seen in the darkening smoke.
\par 
\par Suddenly from the gully, the MG team of Stange breaks clear
\par from the smoke and dashes across the field, hugging the fence
\par line.  They disappear into the ditch.
\par 
\par SHOT - THE DITCH
\par 
\par Stange's gun is going into action.  He drops beside Dietrich
\par in the ditch.  Dietrich is reloading.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           I'm moving out now.  Keep up the
\par           fire until you see the smoke
\par           grenade.  Make sure we leave the
\par           rear of the house clear for them to
\par           retreat.  Give me your grenades.
\par 
\par Stange silently hands him four grenades from his tunic
\par pocket.
\par 
\par                      SGT. STANGE
\par                (meaningly)
\par           Good luck, Sir.
\par 
\par Dietrich moves down the ditch and hands a grenade to each of
\par his four men.  He pulls the two ammo bearers off each of the
\par guns as he moves down the line.
\par 
\par The gunners are firing in regular alternating bursts.
\par 
\par The assault unit is bunched around Dietrich.  There are eight
\par men and Dietrich.
\par 
\par SHOT - LOW ANGLE - THE DITCH
\par 
\par Dietrich holds his SMG in his left hand a grenade lightly in
\par his right.  He vaults out of the ditch.
\par 
\par Two men follow close behind him and clear.
\par 
\par The next man is hit squarely in the chest with a burst of
\par carbine fire and is blasted back into the road.
\par 
\par Three men clear.  Another burst of carbine fire gets one in
\par the leg.  He limps back and hops down calmly in the ditch.
\par 
\par The final two men look a moment and clear.
\par 
\par SHOT - THE FIELD IN FRONT OF THE FENCE
\par 
\par The men are lying like conspicuous blobs on the ground.  The
\par house looms ahead of them fifty yards up a slight grade.  It
\par is raked with MG fire.
\par 
\par Dietrich is looking back at his final man moving up to flop
\par down.  They are spread in an irregular line about ten yards
\par apart.
\par 
\par Dietrich motions ahead the right flank.  He fires over their
\par heads at the upper story of the house as they rush up the
\par grade about twenty yards and flop.
\par 
\par The right flank begins to fire and Dietrich gets up and moves
\par forward.  The three men with him move up at a crouch.  One is
\par hit and rolls in a ball of pain on the ground.
\par 
\par Dietrich doesn't even see him hit.  He and his men make a
\par dash for the wall of the house.  They fire at the lower
\par windows as they run.  They slam into the side of the house.
\par 
\par SHOT - THE WALL OF THE HOUSE
\par 
\par Dietrich and his men press against the wall of the house.
\par 
\par The windows on the ground floor are higher than the men's
\par heads.  Those on the second floor are considerably higher.
\par 
\par CROSS SHOT - THE SLOPE AND THE WALL
\par 
\par The right flank makes its dash for the wall.  Several shots
\par ring out from the upper windows.
\par 
\par One man is hit in the foot; he hops madly for the wall.
\par 
\par Sergeant Stange's MG chatters out in several short bursts;
\par the rounds crash and splinter into the upper story.
\par 
\par The second wave makes the wall panting heavily.  The wounded
\par man makes the last few yards leaping in long bounds on one
\par foot.
\par 
\par He stumbles up the wall towards Dietrich using the wall for
\par support.  Dietrich grabs him under the arm as he pants to
\par regain his breath.
\par 
\par                      WOUNDED SOLDIER
\par                (gasping)
\par           Lieutenant, they are leaving the
\par           house by the rear.  I saw first
\par           three and then five more run out
\par           into the orchard.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par                (leaning out to look up at
\par                 the upper windows)
\par           Let them go.
\par                (he lowers the man to the
\par                 ground)
\par           You sit here.
\par 
\par LONG SHOT - THE ASSAULT UNIT ALONG THE WALL
\par 
\par The German MG's are still sporadically raking the front of
\par the house.  The American guns are silent.  Only rifle and
\par carbine fire are heard from the house broken by occasional
\par explosive burst of BAR fire.
\par 
\par Dietrich and his men move along the wall towards the front.
\par 
\par Dietrich pulls the pin on his grenade and tosses it underhand
\par around the corner of the house.  It splutters on the ground
\par for a moment and then begins to pour out a thick, white
\par smoke.
\par 
\par Dietrich holds out his arm to keep back his eager men.  With
\par his other he deftly pulls another grenade out of his tunic,
\par pulls the pin with his teeth and tosses it after the first.
\par 
\par It is also a smoke grenade.  Dietrich and his men pour around
\par the corner of the house into the envelope of smoke.
\par 
\par SHOT - THE MEN IN THE YARD
\par 
\par The German guns are still.  But the front of the house is
\par battered with the results of their heavy fire.
\par 
\par On the right lie the dead bodies of two Americans with their
\par LMG amidst discarded boxes of ammo.  The ground is littered
\par with cartridge cases.
\par 
\par The smoke is heavy.  On the left of the house a splintered
\par shed burns, ignited by tracers.  It adds to the smoke.
\par 
\par The Germans fan out in the smoke and carefully sweep the
\par yard.
\par 
\par SHOT - THE YARD - ANOTHER ANGLE
\par 
\par From the burning shed comes a high-pitched burst of carbine
\par fire.  It wildly sprays the area.  Then it stops abruptly.
\par 
\par The Germans squat to the ground.  One man cuts loose a
\par barrage of shots from his rifle into the shed.
\par 
\par SHOT - TOWARDS THE HOUSE - THE SHED FROM BOTH SIDES
\par 
\par The German fires and moves towards the shed at a crouch.
\par 
\par From the rear of the shed, hidden by the shed and the smoke,
\par races an American corporal covering the withdrawal of his MG
\par team.
\par 
\par They are cutting up an avenue of apple trees in the orchard
\par in the background.  The smoke is starting to drift into the
\par trees.
\par 
\par The American corporal turns and fires another burst into the
\par shed.  Neither the American nor the Germans can see each
\par other.
\par 
\par From the smoke comes a series of flashes from a German SMG.
\par 
\par The American ducks and runs into concealment up a row of
\par trees.
\par 
\par SHOT - THE SHED, HOUSE AND ORCHARD
\par 
\par The shed runs along the wall of the house.  It looks at the
\par orchard across a broken fence that runs down the other side
\par of the spur into the wash.
\par 
\par The Germans have cleared the yard and are checking along the
\par other side of the house and the shed.
\par 
\par From the orchard where it runs higher up on the side of the
\par ridge and the spur comes a burst of American MG fire.
\par 
\par The smoke is thin on this side of the house and has only
\par begun to drift up into the orchard.
\par 
\par The shots are wild, high up on the house.  The Germans
\par scatter.  Dietrich drops behind a well casing of stone.  He
\par fires a long burst up the slope into the orchard.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par                (bellowing)
\par           Fall back into the gully.  Get
\par           moving.  Fall back.
\par 
\par SHOT - ANOTHER ANGLE
\par 
\par The American gun fires another burst of well aimed fire.  It
\par catches one of the Germans racing back along the side of the
\par shed.  The velocity of the fire knocks him into the flimsy
\par wooden wall.  He crashes through and the rounds splinter the
\par wood and rack his body.
\par 
\par Dietrich fires another burst and dashes back into the smoke.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par                (bellowing)
\par           Sgt. Stange, get those MG's back.
\par           Displace to the gully.
\par 
\par                      SGT. STANGE (O.S.)
\par                (from about fifty yards to
\par                 the right)
\par           Take those guns and let's go.  Come
\par           on.
\par 
\par The scene is one of smoke and confusion.  There is another
\par burst of American MG fire raking the building.  A German
\par turns and lets loose a volley of rifle shots fired from the
\par hip up into the orchard.  He cannot see the gun but fires
\par into the trees.
\par 
\par The rounds crash and cut into the branches.  There is another
\par answering burst of American fire.  Then stillness.
\par 
\par LONG SHOT - THE VALLEY
\par 
\par The house has a shattered look.  The shed beside it burns.
\par There are bodies of Germans and Americans crumpled here and
\par there.  In the yard there is a bright, brassy litter of
\par cartridge cases.
\par 
\par Smoke hangs in a layer thickly around the house.  A slight
\par breeze drifts the smoke up the slope into the orchard.  It
\par clings like a white syrup to the ground and drifts slowly up
\par the avenues of trees.
\par 
\par                                              DISSOLVE TO:
\par 
\par SHOT - GERMANS IN THE GULLY
\par 
\par Dietrich's remaining men and Stange's MG teams are the worse
\par for wear.  About half the original group remain and of these
\par half again are wounded.  One man wounded in the leg has been
\par carried bodily down.  Another limps painfully from a wound in
\par the foot.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par                (to Stange)
\par           We will have to clear that ford
\par           before they get organized and that
\par           smoke blows off.
\par                (he looks around)
\par           I want you to use the four assault
\par           men and form a rear guard.
\par 
\par                      SGT. STANGE
\par                (unlimbers his SMG)
\par           I'll make it hot for them if they
\par           follow us in the gully.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par                (checks the chamber)
\par           We must have fifteen minutes for
\par           reorganization.
\par 
\par                      SGT. STANGE
\par                (checks his chamber)
\par           I'll guarantee you that, Lieutenant.
\par 
\par A volley of shots rings out from the orchard and they all
\par duck.
\par 
\par                      SGT. STANGE
\par           They're firing from up in that damn
\par           orchard.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par                (getting up)
\par           They haven't spotted us yet.  They
\par           are still covering the house.  Let's
\par           get moving.  Allow us a hundred yard
\par           start.
\par                (loudly)
\par           MG teams, move out.  The riflemen
\par           are with Sgt. Stange.
\par 
\par SHOT - THE GULLY - THE GERMANS BEGIN TO MOVE
\par 
\par The MG teams need no urging.  They trot off down the gully.
\par 
\par One team is reduced to a gunner and an assistant.  They have
\par only three boxes of ammo left.
\par 
\par The other team has three men but only the belt in the gun.
\par The assistant gunner trots up beside the first team and gets
\par a box of ammo.
\par 
\par Behind them the rifle men spread out at Stange's signal.
\par Stange pulls the wounded man off into shelter by the bank of
\par the gully.  He takes his rifle and all ammo.
\par 
\par The MG teams with Dietrich have disappeared at a trot down
\par the gully and around the bend.  Stange waves back his rear
\par guard.  They start after the MG teams at a slower pace.
\par 
\par HIGH ANGLE LONG SHOT - THE ENTIRE SCENE
\par 
\par Far off to the left the house is still shrouded in smoke.
\par But the smoke has spread and thinned.  It hangs over the
\par house, yard and orchard like a haze.
\par 
\par The rear guard of Stange's has disappeared around the bend.
\par They reappear again in the next stretch and then are gone
\par again.
\par 
\par In the orchard there is movement.  The Americans have
\par reorganized.  Half a squad are flanking down the orchard
\par approaching the house cautiously.
\par 
\par They are shadowy and obscure in the haze.  They move past the
\par well and along the sheds.  One man idly turns over the body
\par of a German.
\par 
\par More men follow them out of the haze from the orchard.  One
\par is an officer.  He gestures this group around the rear of the
\par house.
\par 
\par                                              DISSOLVE TO:
\par 
\par LONG SHOT - PATROL IN GULLY
\par 
\par The sound of sporadic firing of small arms is heard
\par offscreen.  The patrol hurries along the gully.  The men are
\par divided into two lines, one on each side of the stream which
\par runs down the gully towards the Main.
\par 
\par The gully has deepened and the growth along the edges has
\par thickened into a small tangled forest of small trees, bushes
\par and vines.
\par 
\par MEDIUM LONG SHOT - UP THE GULLY
\par 
\par The men come towards the camera.  As Dietrich nears the
\par camera he steps out of line and urges the troops to close it
\par up as they move by.
\par 
\par SHOT - THE COLUMN OF TROOPS PASSES
\par 
\par The faces of the men show that they are near the breaking
\par point.  They are haggard, grimy with dirt and powder burns,
\par streaked with sweat, some wounded from rock chips in the
\par previous fire fight.  They stumble clumsily along on the
\par slippery rocks.
\par 
\par SHOT - A WOUNDED MAN
\par 
\par A young soldier, badly wounded in the shoulder, stumbles
\par along, gasping with pain.  Tears are streaming down his face.
\par 
\par TWO SHOT - KRAUS AND WOUNDED SOLDIER
\par 
\par The young soldier stumbles and lies in the water.  Behind him
\par is revealed Lt. Kraus.  He pulls the wounded man to his feet
\par and supporting him with one hand, pushes him ahead.
\par 
\par SHOT - GERMAN RUNNER
\par 
\par Comes splashing into view from around the river bend.  He
\par stops, panting in front of Lt. Dietrich.
\par 
\par                      GERMAN RUNNER
\par           Sir, Sergeant Stange says the rear
\par           guard is being pressed hard by about
\par           two squads from the farmhouse.
\par 
\par Dietrich listens to the small arms fire growing louder.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           Tell Sergeant Stange to keep falling
\par           back.  We'll be waiting for him.
\par 
\par                      GERMAN RUNNER
\par           Yes, sir.
\par 
\par He dashes back around the bend.
\par 
\par                                              DISSOLVE TO:
\par 
\par LONG SHOT - THE GULLY - LATE AFTERNOON
\par 
\par The gully has deepened further and the stream widened.  The
\par water rushes swiftly over the stones making a splashing
\par sound.  It is late afternoon and the shadows cut deeply
\par across the gully leaving half in deep shadow, half in pale
\par sunset.  The early evening wind rustles the trees that flank
\par the gully.  Suddenly there is a splashing sound.
\par 
\par SHOT - MEN ROUND THE CURVE
\par 
\par Two men of the rear guard splash into view around the bend in
\par the gully and race along the edge of the stream.  There is a
\par burst of SMG fire and several rifle shots around the bend.
\par The men duck into the woods on the edge of the stream and
\par take cover.  There is another burst of rifle fire and a final
\par chatter of the SMG.  The sound echoes in the gully.
\par 
\par SHOT - SGT. STANGE
\par 
\par The sergeant races around the curve and tears after his men.
\par His feet splash wildly in the shallow water.
\par 
\par LONG SHOT - SERGEANT STANGE IN THE GULLY
\par 
\par He is dashing back in a crouch when an M1 magazine is emptied
\par in rapid sequence.  He half turns to return fire when he is
\par hit by another burst of fire which drops him in his tracks.
\par His body lies half submerged in the stream.
\par 
\par SHOTS - THE MAIN PART OF GERMANS
\par 
\par Dispersed behind cover along both sides of the slopes of the
\par gully.  They holds their fire waiting for the Americans.
\par 
\par SHOT - DIETRICH
\par 
\par He snaps the bolt of his SMG.
\par 
\par LONG SHOT - THE GULLY
\par 
\par The two Germans fire again and pull back through the bushes.
\par They are hidden but the rustling of the bushes gives away
\par their position.  FROM A POSITION TO THE REAR AND TO ONE SIDE
\par OF ONE OF THE MG'S IN AMBUSH THE CAMERA WATCHES THE ACTION AS
\par IF IT WERE ONE OF THE PATROL.
\par 
\par SHOTS - THE AMERICAN ADVANCE GUARD
\par 
\par From around the curve, skirting the bushes on the sunny side
\par of the stream, edge two American riflemen.
\par 
\par Then on the shady side comes the man with the carbine.
\par 
\par One of the riflemen, an NCO, waves forward the rifleman.
\par 
\par He runs up the sunny side and takes cover in a position
\par dominating the next bend of the stream.
\par 
\par The NCO then waves forward the carbine man.
\par 
\par LONG SHOTS - ANOTHER ANGLE FROM THE AMBUSH
\par 
\par The carbine man runs up the shady side, one boot crunching
\par the gravel, the other splashing in the stream.  He dives
\par behind a fallen tree where he can see down the next stretch
\par of the stream.
\par 
\par LONG SHOT - ANOTHER ANGLE FROM THE AMBUSH
\par 
\par The NCO looks behind him and waves up the rest of the
\par American patrol.  THE CAMERA WATCHES THE ACTION BELOW.
\par FRAMING THE SHOT ARE TREES AND BRUGGEMANN KNEELING WITH HIS
\par SMG IN A SHADOW.
\par 
\par LONG SHOT - ANOTHER ANGLE FROM THE AMBUSH
\par 
\par The NCO looks ahead and waves the rifleman forward moving up
\par as he does so.  The rifleman trots forward as the carbine man
\par covers.  As the NCO comes up he waves the carbine man forward
\par and, as he trots up the shady side, the NCO drops to cover
\par both his point men.
\par 
\par LONG SHOT - ANOTHER ANGLE FROM THE AMBUSH
\par 
\par The NCO pauses for a minute and then moves around the bend
\par after his men.  THE CAMERA WATCHES THE ACTION BELOW.  IN THE
\par FOREGROUND KRAUS IS WATCHING WITH AN EYESTRAINING INTENSITY.
\par His hands grip his SMG until the knuckles whiten.
\par 
\par LONG SHOT - ANOTHER ANGLE FROM THE AMBUSH
\par 
\par Suddenly around the upper bend, the first elements of the
\par well dispersed American patrol move cautiously.  They are one
\par of three squads of the platoon attacked in the farmhouse.
\par They peer everywhere, their weapons at the ready as they walk
\par slowly along in two columns, one on each side of the stream.
\par A lieutenant heads up the column on the sunny side.
\par 
\par LONG SHOT - SLOW PAN
\par 
\par THE CAMERA MOVES ALONG BEHIND THE MEN IN AMBUSH CATCHING
\par SIGHT OF THE AMERICAN PATROL THROUGH THE TREES.  The Germans
\par silently pull pins on their grenades and hold them ready in
\par their fists.
\par 
\par Still the patrol moves on until the three squads are
\par contained in the bend of the river.  The lead man idly kicks
\par over the body of Sgt. Stange as he passes.
\par 
\par THE PANNING CAMERA REACHES DIETRICH IN THE LINE OF GERMANS IN
\par AMBUSH.  Dietrich drops his hand and the German MG begins to
\par fire.
\par 
\par QUICK CUTS - GERMANS IN AMBUSH
\par 
\par The Germans unleash a shower of grenades that arch down on
\par the Americans as the MG's start to sweep the line.
\par 
\par LONG SHOTS - THE GULLY AND SHADY RIDGE
\par 
\par The shady woods erupt with fire just as the grenades explode.
\par The American patrol is caught entirely by surprise.  As the
\par grenades explode everything is chaos and smoke with the
\par German MG's cutting through the confusion with a hail of fire
\par that stitches back and forth across the water.
\par 
\par QUICK CUTS
\par 
\par The American lieutenant tries to rally his men to fire but is
\par cut down by a burst of SMG fire.  The shady side containing
\par the ambush is sheathed in smoke.
\par 
\par LONG SHOT - THE GULLY AND SHADY RIDGE
\par 
\par Every American has been killed or wounded.  The German
\par riflemen have stopped firing, seeing no targets.  The MG's
\par continue for several seconds and then halt.  There is a
\par terrible stillness.
\par 
\par SHOTS - THE GULLY AND SHADY RIDGE
\par 
\par The stillness and the smoke seem to hang in the air together.
\par Slowly the slight wind coming down the gully begins to carry
\par off the smoke.  As it rises the lumps of bodies can be seen
\par in the stream or half in the bushes at the edge.  The water
\par is muddy from the blood and the silt kicked up as the men
\par raced futilely for safety.  The gurgling stream washes in and
\par around the bodies.
\par 
\par SHOT - THE GERMANS SLOWLY COME DOWN THE HILLSIDE
\par 
\par The Germans come down from ambush with their weapons ready.
\par The American wounded are beginning to cry for medics.  The
\par Germans are ready for a trap or for someone to shoot at them
\par as they come out.  Their body attitude and readiness of their
\par SMG's denotes caution.
\par 
\par SHOT - THE GERMANS MOVE OUT IN THE STREAM
\par 
\par When the Germans get out in the stream they see that all
\par fight has left the Americans.  Immediately they begin pulling
\par the wounded out of the water.  They sling their weapons over
\par their shoulders and work in pairs gently carrying the
\par Americans up onto the edge of the stream where the medic can
\par treat them.
\par 
\par SHOT - DIETRICH
\par 
\par Dietrich ignores all this activity.  He rushes down the hill
\par and splashes through the stream to Stange.  The sergeant is
\par lying on his back in the stream, his head under water in a
\par pool where the American soldier has turned him over.
\par 
\par Dietrich drops to his knees and pulls up the head of the
\par sergeant.  The water runs down his face and from his hair.
\par Dietrich looks at him sadly thinking sentimentally of all
\par their missions together.  He idly buttons a pocket on the
\par sergeant's tunic.
\par 
\par SHOT - DIETRICH
\par 
\par Dietrich reaches down and struggles up with the dripping body
\par of the sergeant in his arms.  He staggers over to the sunny
\par side of the stream with his burden and places it down by the
\par wounded Americans.  Reaching down he runs his hands quickly
\par over the face, closing the eyes.  He wipes the water from his
\par hands on his pants.  Bruggemann comes up and points.
\par 
\par POV - KRAUS KNEELING NEXT TO WOUNDED AMERICAN LIEUTENANT
\par 
\par TWO SHOT - DIETRICH AND BRUGGEMANN
\par 
\par Dietrich gestures towards the wounded officer.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           Let's see what they know about us.
\par 
\par                      LT. BRUGGEMANN
\par           Shall I come with you?
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           No, better get everyone ready to
\par           move out.  And redistribute the
\par           ammo.
\par 
\par Lt. Bruggemann exits shot.  CAMERA follows Dietrich to Kraus
\par and American lieutenant.
\par 
\par THREE SHOT - DIETRICH, KRAUS AND WOUNDED LIEUTENANT
\par 
\par Dietrich nods Kraus back a bit.  Kraus moves away a few feet.
\par Dietrich kneels.  As he kneels his friendly interrogator
\par smile appears.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par                (the professional charm)
\par           Is there anything I can do to make
\par           you more comfortable, Lieutenant --
\par                (looks at dog tag)
\par           Foote?
\par 
\par                      LT. FOOTE
\par                (sarcastic)
\par           Well, a perfect gentleman.
\par 
\par Dietrich pauses a moment, studying the American.  Then he
\par smiles pleasantly.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           I can understand your bitterness at
\par           being wounded, Lieutenant Foote.
\par 
\par                      LT. FOOTE
\par                (wincing in pain)
\par           Say, that's mighty decent of you.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           If I may, I would suggest you do not
\par           waste your strength in anger.
\par 
\par                      LT. FOOTE
\par                (coughs in pain)
\par           Why don't you go to hell?
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par                (after a sympathetic
\par                 shrug)
\par           It might be an improvement.  Would
\par           you like a cigarette?
\par 
\par                      LT. FOOTE
\par           Okay.
\par 
\par While he talks, Dietrich lights one and puts in it the
\par American's mouth.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           Are you in great pain?
\par 
\par                      LT. FOOTE
\par                (bitterly)
\par           Only when I laugh.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par                (an obvious con)
\par           Very witty.  I hope I can make jokes
\par           when my time comes.
\par 
\par                      LT. FOOTE
\par           You're not the type.  A heroic pose
\par           would be more your stuff.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           I'm sorry it had to happen this way,
\par           Lieutenant Foote.
\par 
\par                      LT. FOOTE
\par           C'est La Guerre, Herr
\par           Oberlieutenant.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par                (craftily)
\par           You chaps almost had us back there
\par           at the farmhouse.
\par 
\par                      LT. FOOTE
\par                (bored)
\par           C'est La Guerre... C'est La Guerre.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           I guess you were tipped off about
\par           us.
\par 
\par                      LT. FOOTE
\par           Is that a question?
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par                (caught)
\par           No, of course not.  We're just
\par           having a conversation.
\par 
\par                      LT. FOOTE
\par           Okay, Lieutenant Andrew Foote,
\par           serial number 6787345, United States
\par           Army.  I'm a very poor
\par           conversationalist.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           Come, come Lieutenant.  We've
\par           treated you decently, haven't we?
\par 
\par                      LT. FOOTE
\par           You mean before or after you shot
\par           me?
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           Look, your wound may be serious.
\par           You probably haven't much time.  Why
\par           not be decent about it?
\par 
\par                      LT. FOOTE
\par                (smothers a painful laugh)
\par           Okay, here's come decent advice.
\par           Find the nearest American soldier
\par           and surrender.  Every rear echelon
\par           unit has been alerted to your
\par           presence.  I don't know what you
\par           fellows think you're trying to do
\par           but in case you haven't heard.
\par                (coughs)
\par           The war is lost.  And in case you
\par           don't know which side lost it --
\par           yours did.  Now why don't you put
\par           your toys away like good little boys
\par           and... go... home.
\par                (lapses into
\par                 unconsciousness)
\par 
\par Dietrich stands and frowns.
\par 
\par TWO SHOT - DIETRICH AND KRAUS
\par 
\par They stand a little apart from the others and talk quietly.
\par 
\par                      LT. KRAUS
\par           He's right, Paul.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           How do you know?
\par 
\par                      LT. KRAUS
\par           They were waiting for us at the
\par           farmhouse.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           Maybe you were philosophizing too
\par           loud.
\par 
\par                      LT. KRAUS
\par                (gently)
\par           Paul, what's happening to you?
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par                (sharply)
\par           You ask me that question.
\par 
\par                      LT. KRAUS
\par           Perhaps my nerves are gone but I'm
\par           not blind.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           But I suppose I am blind.
\par 
\par                      LT. KRAUS
\par                (said simply)
\par           This is the end, Paul.  It's not
\par           suicide to go on.  It's murder.
\par           Germany is finished.  These men have
\par           families that will need them after
\par           the war.  The only thing that
\par           matters now is rebuilding what is
\par           left so that our children may have a
\par           chance for peace and happiness that
\par           we never had.  The bridge doesn't
\par           matter.  It never did.
\par 
\par Dietrich has been listening somewhat contemptuously while
\par also keeping an eye on Bruggemann's progress reforming the
\par patrol and making the wounded comfortable.  When Kraus
\par finishes, Dietrich waits several seconds before replying, as
\par if to ask, "Are you quite through?"
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           Oskar, my friendship has permitted
\par           you to indulge in this orgy of self-
\par           pity and self-righteousness.  My
\par           patience is at an end.  You will
\par           either conduct yourself properly
\par           from this moment on, or you will
\par           have to face the consequences.
\par 
\par For a moment Kraus blinks in surprise at his friend.
\par 
\par                      LT. KRAUS
\par                (derisively)
\par           Would you have me shot, Paul?
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           I threatened nothing specific.
\par 
\par Dietrich stands with arms crossed looking, unfortunately, too
\par much like a recruiting poster.
\par 
\par                      LT. KRAUS
\par                (laughs)
\par           Marvelous.
\par                (making fun of Dietrich's
\par                 stance)
\par           Just tilt the chin a little to the
\par           right... ah, a masterpiece.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par                (getting angry)
\par           Form up your section.  Your behavior
\par           is jeopardizing the security of the
\par           mission.
\par 
\par The patrol tries to appear nonchalant but each man has his
\par attention riveted on the scene between the two officers.
\par 
\par                      LT. KRAUS
\par           The security of the mission!  You
\par           don't give a damn about getting
\par           everyone killed.  The only thing you
\par           care about is that the great, the
\par           noble, the heroic Lieutenant
\par           Dietrich always completes his
\par           mission.  It's not courage.  It's
\par           just that you're more afraid of
\par           failing than you are of getting
\par           killed.
\par 
\par Dietrich, trembling with anger, takes out his pistol, holding
\par it at his side.  No one stirs.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           Lieutenant Oskar Kraus, by the
\par           authority vested in me by the Third
\par           Reich, I order you to form up your
\par           section, at once.
\par 
\par                      LT. KRAUS
\par                (mockingly)
\par           But the pistol, Paul.  What is the
\par           pistol for?
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           Don't drive me too far!
\par 
\par                      LT. KRAUS
\par           You mean you wouldn't want to shoot
\par           me?
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par                (changes his tone,
\par                 suddenly personal again)
\par           Oskar, I beg of you.  Come to your
\par           senses.
\par 
\par                      LT. KRAUS
\par           And I beg of you -- come to your
\par           senses.
\par 
\par Dietrich fumes, silently, then gathers his full resolve.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           For the last time, are you going to
\par           obey my order?
\par 
\par                      LT. KRAUS
\par                (certain that he won't)
\par           I am afraid you will have to shoot
\par           me.
\par 
\par CLOSE - DIETRICH
\par 
\par Trembling with emotion, he notices the blank stares of his
\par men.  Thinks for a moment how foolish he must appear to them.
\par Tries to work up enough anger at his friend to pull the
\par trigger, but can't.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           Very well, if you wish to surrender
\par           you may stay here with the wounded.
\par 
\par CLOSE - KRAUS
\par 
\par                      LT. KRAUS
\par           No!  If you leave me here, I will
\par           tell everything I know about the
\par           mission.  It cannot be long until
\par           more Americans arrive.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par                (exploding)
\par           What in heaven's name do you want?
\par 
\par                      LT. KRAUS
\par           You must either shoot me or give up
\par           the mission.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           Oskar, I warn you not to overplay
\par           your hand.
\par 
\par                      LT. KRAUS
\par           You think I'm bluffing?
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           This has gone on long enough.  Sit
\par           down over there and be quiet.
\par 
\par                      LT. KRAUS
\par           I'm not bluffing.  I swear to tell
\par           everything if you leave me here.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           You're leaving me absolutely no
\par           choice.
\par 
\par                      LT. KRAUS
\par           Fine.  Let's see then whether you
\par           have the courage to shoot me
\par           yourself.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par                (to Bruggemann)
\par           Form up the patrol and move out.
\par 
\par                      LT. BRUGGEMANN
\par                (not wanting to miss
\par                 anything)
\par           Yes, sir.
\par 
\par SHOT - THE PATROL
\par 
\par Begins to form up into a widely spread column.
\par 
\par                      LT. KRAUS
\par           If you can't do it yourself, just
\par           order it done.
\par 
\par SHOT - BRUGGEMANN
\par 
\par Turns back with a look of hate and disgust at Kraus.
\par 
\par SHOT - DIETRICH
\par 
\par He notices the cynical exchange of glances among the men, and
\par realizes what an utter fool he must appear to be.  He walks
\par to Kraus in a very business-like manner.  Kraus reads his
\par face like the small letters in an eye chart.
\par 
\par                      LT. KRAUS
\par           Bruggemann will do it, won't you
\par           Bruggemann?
\par 
\par Without any warning, Dietrich knocks him down with a sweeping
\par punch to the jaw.  He pins Kraus with his knees and smashes
\par him in the face several times with his open hand.
\par 
\par CLOSE DIETRICH - BENDING CLOSE
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par                (softly)
\par           I'm sorry, Oskar.  You know I won't
\par           harm you.  Please, I beg of you,
\par           come to your senses.
\par 
\par CLOSE KRAUS - SQUINTING IN PAIN
\par 
\par His lips twitching from the blows, he manages a smile.  He is
\par visibly touched by his friend's apparently brutal but
\par nevertheless convincing demonstration of affection.  Dietrich
\par had every right to have him shot.  Kraus had tastefully
\par overplayed the belief that Dietrich would not shoot him.  Now
\par he smiles at Dietrich with wet eyes and a lump in his throat.
\par 
\par                      LT. KRAUS
\par           You were perfectly right.  It is I
\par           who should apologize.
\par 
\par CLOSE DIETRICH - EQUALLY CHOKED WITH EMOTION
\par 
\par He helps him to his feet.
\par 
\par CLOSE KRAUS - BRUSHING BACK HIS HAIR
\par 
\par                      LT. KRAUS
\par           Don't worry about me anymore.  I
\par           still think you're crazy but I won't
\par           cause you anymore trouble.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           I knew you wouldn't let me down.
\par 
\par                                              DISSOLVE TO:
\par 
\par SHOT - THE PATROL - DUSK
\par 
\par The sun shafts at a deep angle through the trees, casting
\par dark shadows.
\par 
\par The patrol is traversing the sloping sides of the gully.  It
\par has deepened considerably as it nears the main gorge.
\par 
\par Below the shadows blend into darkness.
\par 
\par The sides of the gully are loose shale and the men find it
\par tricky footing.  Some stumble and slide down several yards
\par until they stop against a tree and can clamber back up again.
\par The pace and their weariness are affecting their quickness.  
\par    
\par SHOT - DIETRICH   
\par    
\par The pace is beginning to affect him also.  His step has lost
\par most of that aggressive bounce but he continues to grind out
\par the distance step by step.
\par 
\par He looks alertly around, glancing up slope.
\par 
\par SHOT - UP SLOPE - THE FLANK GUARDS
\par 
\par About fifty feet up slope are two flank guards moving
\par parallel and slightly ahead of the patrol column.  They are
\par just below the top of the ridge.
\par 
\par REVERSE - PAST THE FLANK GUARDS DOWN SLOPE TO PATROL
\par 
\par Kraus is pulling one of the wounded men along by letting the
\par man hold onto his belt.  They stumble forward together.
\par 
\par SHOT - THE REAR OF THE PATROL
\par 
\par One of the demo men falls.  He rolls over and sits up but is
\par too tired to move.
\par 
\par Bruggemann comes up.  Without a word he hauls the man roughly
\par to his feet and shoves him forward.
\par 
\par The man begins again to stumble forward.  The whole scene is
\par a nightmare of exhaustion.
\par 
\par                                              DISSOLVE TO:
\par 
\par LONG SHOT - MAIN GORGE AND RIVER BY BRIGHT MOONLIGHT - NIGHT
\par 
\par The main gorge is wide and deep.  The river is swift and
\par narrow at this point; it is very shallow, racing over stones
\par and boulders, and is about thirty yards across.
\par 
\par The gorge widens beyond the river about fifteen yards on each
\par side.  The cliffs, broken here and there by faults and
\par gullies, rise steeply two hundred feet on both sides.
\par 
\par Between the base of the cliffs and the river edge, on both
\par sides is a thick growth of small trees and underbrush.
\par Spring floods have deposited debris in the brush.
\par 
\par In some areas this band of brush overhangs the river edge.
\par But in other stretches there is a narrow border of white
\par gravel.
\par 
\par The sky holds all the yellow light.  The cliffs and river
\par absorb all the shadows.  The bushes are black.
\par 
\par SHOT - THE PATROL DESCENDING INTO GORGE - MOONLIGHT
\par 
\par The patrol cuts in a steep traverse down the shale slope of
\par the gully.
\par 
\par In the background is the man gorge.  There is a thick tangle
\par of brush and a white gravel bar where the gully joins the
\par gorge.
\par 
\par The patrol disappears into the gathering blend of shadows and
\par bushes as they head down into the gorge and into the thicket.
\par 
\par CLOSE DIETRICH
\par 
\par He stops and smiles excitedly.
\par 
\par SLOW UPWARD PAN FROM RIVER BED - THE BRIDGE
\par 
\par The river is in darkness; the sky, framed by the darkness of
\par the cliffs, seems lighter.
\par 
\par In the distance, suddenly cutting across the sky, is the arch
\par of the bridge, flaring out from one dark cliff and leaping
\par across to the other.
\par 
\par It is a steel girder, single span bridge.  The flat road bed
\par rests on the single girdered arch beneath.
\par 
\par The interlace of girders, cross beams, spanners and braces
\par makes an intricacy that interacts dramatically with the
\par single, powerful bulk of the arch.
\par 
\par SHOT - THE BRIDGE, RIVER AND GORGE
\par 
\par There is a steady stream of trucks across the bridge.  They
\par are visible only be the occasional flash of their lights.
\par 
\par But their traffic noise echoes in the gorge, competing with
\par the rush of the river.
\par 
\par Once and a while a tank column makes a rumble on the bridge
\par like distant thunder.
\par 
\par SHOT - HIGH ANGLE - UP THE GORGE
\par 
\par Far up the river, the tiny figures of an American patrol
\par round a bend in the river.
\par 
\par Platoon-sized, the men are spread out and moving deliberately
\par forward, a column on each side of the river.
\par 
\par SHOT - THE GERMANS
\par 
\par The point and Dietrich spot a splashing American at the same
\par time.  He is about fifty yards in front of them.
\par 
\par Dietrich makes a desperate signal for the Germans to get
\par down.  They ease down quickly in their tracks.  It is as if
\par the patrol has disappeared.  The camouflaged faces, the dirty
\par uniforms, the combat experience blend them into shadows of
\par the bushes and the ground.
\par 
\par The only sounds are the splashes and gurgles from the river
\par as it races over the rocks.
\par 
\par SHOT - THE AMERICAN PATROL
\par 
\par They round another bend and start along the section of river
\par approaching the thick growth and gravel bar at the mouth of
\par the gully.
\par 
\par The lieutenant in charge steps out of line and looks back at
\par his men.  He makes some signal to his sergeant in the rear.
\par 
\par The water, mainly dark, catches occasional flashes of light
\par from the sky as the current roils the surface.
\par 
\par The Americans make a pattern of movements in the shadows
\par overhanging the banks.
\par 
\par In the center of the stream, one American makes a ripple of
\par light in the dark water as he splashes across to the other
\par side and is then gone again in the shadows.
\par 
\par SHOT - THE FACES OF THE GERMANS
\par 
\par The German faces reflect the tension.  The situation is
\par dangerous.  They are out-numbered two-to-one and pinned
\par against the wall of the cliff.
\par 
\par They are too close to the bridge to fight and then carry out
\par the demolition.
\par 
\par They feel as if the Americans can hear their breathing.
\par 
\par SHOT - THE AMERICAN PATROL - FROM THE RIVER BED
\par 
\par Beneath the Germans and about fifty yards away, the American
\par patrol methodically picks its way past upstream.
\par 
\par The main body passes the next bend.
\par 
\par The rear guard splashes along behind and then follows around
\par the curve.
\par 
\par The river is empty and the emptiness is filled by the sounds
\par of the current.
\par 
\par THE CAMERA HOLDS ON THE EMPTY RIVER FOR SEVERAL BEATS
\par 
\par Then the Germans slowly move out of the bushes and into the
\par river.
\par 
\par The noise of the river drowns out their noise and it is as if
\par they were moving in perfect silence.
\par 
\par They hug the shadows on the edge of the river.  They move
\par downstream towards the bridge.  The blackness of their faces,
\par their bulging loads of demolition and the tension in their
\par movements contrast ominously with the attitude of the
\par American patrol.
\par 
\par                                              DISSOLVE TO:
\par 
\par CLOSE - DIETRICH, BRUGGEMANN AND KRAUS BEHIND COVER PEERING
\par UP
\par 
\par POV - LOOKING UP AT THE ARCH OF THE BRIDGE HIGH ABOVE FROM
\par ALMOST UNDERNEATH
\par 
\par The interlace of girders, cross beams, spanners and braces
\par loom black against the moonlit sky.  The traffic noises echo
\par weirdly against the cliff walls.
\par 
\par FULLER SHOT - DIETRICH, BRUGGEMANN AND KRAUS
\par 
\par Behind them the remainder of the patrol, about 20 men are
\par deployed behind cover.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           I think this side is the easier one.
\par           A four cut should drop that end
\par           neatly in the gorge.
\par 
\par Bruggemann nods in agreement.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           How many climbers are left?
\par 
\par                      LT. BRUGGEMANN
\par           Mandel is the only one still with us
\par           but his hand is badly smashed.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           Well, it looks like you and I will
\par           have to manage alone, eh, Peter?
\par 
\par                      LT. BRUGGEMANN
\par           We can do it.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par                (pointing)
\par           Good.  Get the rope and explosives
\par           collected.
\par 
\par                      LT. BRUGGEMANN
\par           At once.
\par                (he exits)
\par 
\par Dietrich turns to Kraus.  The two friends clasp hands.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           Set up the perimeter.  Keep an eye
\par           out for that patrol.  If they come
\par           back while we're still up in the
\par           bridge open fire on them.  Give us
\par           as much time as possible.
\par 
\par                      LT. KRAUS
\par           Don't worry about that.
\par                (grabbing him by the arm)
\par           Be careful, will you?
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par                (clasps back of Kraus'
\par                 neck)
\par           You too.
\par 
\par SHOT - FOLLOWING DIETRICH
\par 
\par He slips away from Kraus and moves toward the base of the
\par cliff where Bruggemann has collected their gear.
\par 
\par SHOT - KRAUS
\par 
\par He silently gestures the men into a defensive perimeter,
\par moving flank outposts up the downstream.
\par 
\par SHOT - DIETRICH AND BRUGGEMANN
\par 
\par Falling rubble from the cliff has cut away the brush from the
\par base of the fault.
\par 
\par Dietrich and Bruggemann prepare for the climb.
\par 
\par To one side two demo men lay out the explosives and the
\par auxiliary equipment like doctors laying out surgical tools.
\par 
\par In the background several men of the security detail move
\par into position.
\par 
\par Dietrich and Bruggemann lay down their SMG's.  They have only
\par knifes and pistols.  They toss their helmets down.  Each has
\par a coil of rope slung from his shoulder.
\par 
\par Bruggemann slaps Dietrich on the shoulder to indicate he is
\par ready.  Dietrich stamps his boots and adjusts his belt.  He
\par is ready.
\par 
\par The demo men pay no attention.  They are checking the
\par satchels.
\par 
\par SHOTS - DIETRICH AND BRUGGEMANN
\par 
\par The cliff has a fault that runs at an angle from the right
\par down under the arch.  Rubble and debris have washed down it
\par and clog the fault at the bottom.
\par 
\par Dietrich and Bruggemann start up.  They slip a little in the
\par loose shale.
\par 
\par SHOTS - UP THE FAULT
\par 
\par Dietrich leads.  The fault has narrowed into a chimney.
\par 
\par Bracing his back against one wall of the chimney and his feet
\par against the other, he edges himself up by pushing with his
\par hands.
\par 
\par Bruggemann follows.
\par 
\par SHOT - DIETRICH
\par 
\par The tension and effort show on his face.
\par 
\par SHOTS - THE MEN IN THE CHIMNEY BELOW THE BRIDGE
\par 
\par They seem to be inching themselves along.  The chimney
\par carries them out from under the bridge to the right of the
\par abutment.
\par 
\par The fault slopes less and less sharply and finally runs off
\par into a narrow ledge.
\par 
\par                                              DISSOLVE TO:
\par 
\par CROSS SHOT - CLIMBERS ON THE LEDGE
\par 
\par They are now on a level slightly above the level of the
\par abutment.  The camera looks along the ledge and across
\par towards the frame of the bridge.  The climbers are in the
\par foreground.
\par 
\par The bridge looks near and enormous.
\par 
\par SHOTS - THE ARCH OF THE BRIDGE
\par 
\par From this close the mass of the bridge fragments into
\par intricate and delicate balances of steel members and
\par tensions.
\par 
\par The traffic noise has dissolved into the individual noises of
\par each vehicle as it rumbles and roars across the bridge.
\par 
\par SHOTS - THE CLIMBERS
\par 
\par Dietrich and Bruggemann rope themselves together on the
\par ledge.
\par 
\par They are very deliberate about their task, checking each knot
\par twice.  Dietrich ties a double bowline and shrugs into it
\par like a tight vest after pulling on it hard to set the knots.
\par 
\par He adjusts it around his chest.  The rope runs from the
\par center of his back over to Bruggemann.
\par 
\par Bruggemann knots a bowline around his waist with the other
\par free end.  The men are now tied in at opposite ends of the
\par rope.
\par 
\par The line running between them, Bruggemann coils carefully.
\par He places the coil behind him, letting the section of the
\par rope running from the coil to Dietrich pass across his body
\par in a running belay or brake.
\par 
\par Dietrich watches this accomplished.  He then makes a sign to
\par Bruggemann and starts feeling his way along the ledge towards
\par the bridge.
\par 
\par He strips off rope from the coil.  Bruggemann lets the rope
\par run from the coil to his right hand, then across his back to
\par his left hand and on to Dietrich.  Should Dietrich fall he
\par will snap his right hand into his chest, using his body as a
\par snubbing post to stop the fall.
\par 
\par He is on one knee braced with his right leg stiff in front of
\par him along the narrow ledge.
\par 
\par SHOT - DIETRICH
\par 
\par Dietrich continues to edge along feeling for hand and foot
\par holds on the face of the cliff.
\par 
\par The distance to the bridge abutment looks about twenty feet.
\par 
\par He edges forward.  He is flat against the cliff in a spread-
\par eagled position.  His fingers are dug into a small crevice.
\par 
\par He edges out with his left foot on a narrow crack until there
\par is room for his right.  Shifting his weight as much as
\par possible, he pushes his body into a balanced position by a
\par desperate effort of his arms.  He is about eight feet or so
\par from the abutment.
\par 
\par Reaching above him as high as he can, he finds a strong hand
\par hold.  Lifting himself by this, he steps up onto another
\par small foot hold.
\par 
\par This can only accommodate his left foot.
\par 
\par The abutment is below him and about eight or nine feet away.
\par 
\par He is flattened against the cliff but manages to carefully
\par turn his head back towards the belay man.
\par 
\par SHOT - ACROSS DIETRICH TO BRUGGEMANN
\par 
\par Dietrich hisses for more rope.
\par 
\par Bruggemann slowly pays out five, six, then seven feet.  He
\par shakes his head.  The slack would give Dietrich's falling
\par body the momentum to jerk them off the ridge.
\par 
\par Dietrich hisses violently and Bruggemann eases off another
\par yard.
\par 
\par SHOT - DIETRICH
\par 
\par Turning his head back carefully, Dietrich looks across at the
\par abutment, judging the distance.  He is breathing heavily.
\par 
\par SHOTS FROM ABOVE - DIETRICH
\par 
\par THE CAMERA LOOKS DOWN ON DIETRICH AND ON INTO THE GORGE
\par 
\par The sensation is one of dizzying height.  The blackness of
\par the cliffs make the gorge look like a giant maw.  The torrent
\par crashes through the cut beneath the bridge.
\par 
\par Suddenly Dietrich leaps.
\par 
\par SHOT FROM ABOVE - DIETRICH
\par 
\par He hits the edge of the abutment waist high and clings to it
\par with all his strength.
\par 
\par Below the darkness and the roar of the river blend into a
\par frightening background.
\par 
\par THE CAMERA CATCHES THE DESPERATION ON HIS FACE
\par 
\par He gets a knee over and inches himself onto the abutment.  He
\par finally stands up.
\par 
\par SHOT - DIETRICH ON THE ABUTMENT
\par 
\par Dietrich unties the rope from his body with difficulty.
\par 
\par He tosses the rope over the arched girder tied into the
\par abutment.
\par 
\par He grabs the dangling free end and pulls it down.
\par 
\par SHOT - DOWN PAST BRUGGEMANN
\par 
\par The slack is pulled across.  The rope is taut to the bowline
\par around Bruggemann's waist.
\par 
\par He edges forward as far as possible on the ledge and Dietrich
\par takes up this slack.
\par 
\par Dietrich wraps the free end hanging down the cliff in a belay
\par running under his arm, across his back, around his waist and
\par down the cliff.  He signals Bruggemann that he is ready.
\par 
\par SHOT FROM ABOVE - BRUGGEMANN AND DIETRICH
\par 
\par THE CAMERA LOOKS DOWN AGAIN INTO THE DIZZYING ABYSS OF THE
\par GORGE
\par 
\par Bruggemann hesitates for several moments and then jumps off,
\par pushing out with his hand from the cliff.
\par 
\par He drops for a moment until he takes up the slack.  Then he
\par stops with a jolt that lifts Dietrich off his feet for a
\par split second as the rope slams taut.
\par 
\par Bruggemann swings around to the face of the abutment.  He
\par turns there helplessly until he finally gets a foot on the
\par face of the abutment.  His weight is balanced across the
\par girder with Dietrich's.
\par 
\par In position now, he grabs the free end of the rope and hauls
\par himself up as Dietrich also pulls on the free end to help the
\par lift.
\par 
\par SHOT - THE ABUTMENT
\par 
\par Dietrich reaches down and pulls Bruggemann up.  Bruggemann
\par sits and rests for a moment.  The rumbling of traffic
\par overhead is quite loud.
\par 
\par He unties the rope.  Dietrich helps him with the knots,
\par jammed tight by the drop.
\par 
\par They free the rope and let it fall free down the cliff after
\par tying one end around the girder.  Dietrich shakes the rope
\par three times.
\par 
\par SHOT - DEMOLITIONS TEAM BELOW BRIDGE TIES EXPLOSIVE PACKS TO
\par ROPE
\par 
\par In only a few seconds the rope slaps three times against the
\par abutment.  The demolitions are tied on.
\par 
\par SHOT - DIETRICH & BRUGGEMANN ON THE ABUTMENT
\par 
\par Dietrich stands carefully out of the way as Bruggemann,
\par straining, hauls up the load, hand-over-hand.  When it
\par reaches the abutment Dietrich pulls it up onto the shelf.
\par They untie the load and drop the rope back down.
\par 
\par Dietrich reaches up and slaps one satchel into the angle the
\par arching beam makes with the abutment wall.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par                (whispering)
\par           Place the two upper charges.  I'll
\par           wire the opposite lower one and then
\par           tie in the two upper ones on the way
\par           back here.
\par 
\par Bruggemann nods.  They place the straps of the satchels over
\par their heads.  Dietrich has one satchel and a reel of wire;
\par Bruggemann has two satchels.
\par 
\par SHOT - DIETRICH
\par 
\par Dietrich lifts himself up onto a sitting position on the
\par arching beam.  Getting to his feet he starts up the arch in
\par an apelike climb, bent at the waist and balancing with his
\par hands on the girder.
\par 
\par SHOT - DIETRICH FROM ABOVE
\par 
\par He reaches the first main cross section.  He lifts up and
\par grabs the upright brace.
\par 
\par Below the river races in a giddy torrent one hundred feet
\par below.
\par 
\par SHOT - TO THE FAR ARCHES BEAM - BELOW RIVER YAWS SICKENINGLY
\par 
\par There is a cross brace connecting to the far arched beam.  It
\par is about two feet wide.
\par 
\par Dietrich starts out on it on hands and knees, crawling with
\par great care.  He deliberately puts one hand in front, then
\par advances the opposite knee.  Then he pushes the other hand
\par forward.
\par 
\par SHOT - DIETRICH ON THE CROSS BEAM FROM FAR ARCH
\par 
\par He slowly approaches the far arch.  He slowly rises up
\par grabbing the upright brace.
\par 
\par He pauses for a moment.  Then he seats himself carefully on
\par the arched beam and edges down it toward its abutment.  He
\par eases his way by planting his rubber-soled shoes flat against
\par the metal of the beam and braking himself down.
\par 
\par SHOT - DIETRICH FROM BELOW
\par 
\par He reaches the extreme angle where the arched beam abuts
\par against the concrete wall.  He eases the satchel off one
\par shoulder and places it in his lap.
\par 
\par CLOSE SHOTS - DIETRICH
\par 
\par Taking out his cap crimpers and using the pointed end, he
\par jams a hole through the top of the canvas satchel and deep
\par into the yielding explosive.
\par 
\par Leaving the crimpers in the hole, he takes out the cap box,
\par flips open the top and gently removes a cap.  He puts it in
\par his mouth and returns the box to his pocket.
\par 
\par He strips off a half a dozen turns of wire from the reel and
\par lets the loose end rest in his lap on the satchel.
\par 
\par Looking around he finds an extruding bolt and knots the wire
\par around it leaving several feet of free end.
\par 
\par Taking the cap from his mouth he enters the bared end of the
\par wire in the open end of the aluminum cylinder of the cap.
\par Holding this arrangement between thumb and forefinger, he
\par grabs the cap crimpers and crimps the edges of the cylinder
\par hard against the wire.
\par 
\par He shoves the cap with the wire running from it, into the
\par hole in the satchel charge, pressing the yielding plastic
\par explosive down around it to hold it in.
\par 
\par SHOT - DIETRICH - DIZZYING DOWN ANGLE
\par 
\par Leaning over, he lowers the satchel into the angle of the
\par beam and abutment.  Reaching down with his foot, he
\par delicately pushes it tightly into the crevice.
\par 
\par He runs his hand back from the satchel along the wire to the
\par anchor knot around the bolt and then to the reel.
\par 
\par Turning around carefully, he slips the reel back over his
\par neck and shoulder.  He monkey walks back towards the first
\par cross section with the wire stripping from the reel behind
\par him.  He slips and almost falls.
\par 
\par SHOT - DIETRICH IN GIRDERS OF UPPER BRIDGE
\par 
\par Dietrich swings around the upright brace and gets a foot in
\par the angle of the diagonal.  He begins to climb up.  The
\par punched holes in the diagonal brace make good footholds.
\par 
\par He reaches the joint in the center with the crossing diagonal
\par brace.  He carefully swings around and up onto diagonal going
\par back the opposite way.  He climbs up into the gloom.
\par 
\par SHOT - DIETRICH REACHES THE MAIN UPPER BEAM
\par 
\par Dietrich swings the reel around in front of him.  The wire
\par stretches back to the first charge.  He lifts off several
\par turns and makes a loop, threading it through a rivet hole,
\par and then knots it back on itself to form an anchor knot.  He
\par slings the reel back over his shoulder out of the way.
\par 
\par Out of his pocket he takes the cap box and extracts another
\par cap, placing it in his mouth and returning the box to his
\par pocket.
\par 
\par From his other pocket he removes a connector wire, bare on
\par one end and with an alligator clip on the other.
\par 
\par He inserts the stripped end of the wire in the open end of
\par the cap.  Taking out his crimpers, he crimps it firmly but
\par gently.
\par 
\par Reaching up above him, he drives the pointed end of the
\par crimpers deep into the explosive, piercing the canvas cover
\par of the satchel.  He inserts the cap and kneads the explosive
\par down around it firmly.  He returns the crimpers to his
\par pocket.
\par 
\par Running his fingers along the connector, he picks up the
\par clip.  He bites the clip into the main wire before it reaches
\par the anchor knot.  Pressing it in hard with his fingers to
\par make certain of the connection.
\par 
\par SHOT - DIETRICH FROM BELOW
\par 
\par Without turning around he starts back down the diagonal
\par member.  The wire strips off the reel after him.
\par 
\par SHOT - DIETRICH & BRUGGEMANN ON THE ABUTMENT
\par 
\par Bruggemann stands below on the shelf of the abutment.
\par Dietrich lowers himself onto the shelf.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par                (whispered)
\par           Give me the timer.
\par 
\par Bruggemann reaches in his tunic and carefully hands Dietrich
\par the timing detonator.
\par 
\par SHOT - DIETRICH
\par 
\par Dietrich gently places the timer inside his tunic.
\par 
\par SHOT - SHARP DOWN ANGLE
\par 
\par Dietrich gestures Bruggemann to go down.
\par 
\par Bruggemann wraps the rope around his body in a rappel belay.
\par 
\par The rope runs from the fixed end between his legs, across the
\par buttocks, around the waist, across the shoulder and down
\par along the back.  Holding the free end in his right hand for a
\par brake, he binds it by clenching his fist on the rope and
\par slamming his fist across his chest.
\par 
\par Dietrich watches as he edges over the abutment letting the
\par rope slip slowly until he is over the side, feet against the
\par abutment wall.
\par 
\par SHOT FROM ABOVE - BRUGGEMANN
\par 
\par Bouncing slightly he releases the rope and slides in short
\par checked hops down the cliff face into the darkness of the
\par gorge.
\par 
\par He disappears into the gloom.  Suddenly the rope is slack.
\par It shakes three times.
\par 
\par SHOT - DIETRICH
\par 
\par Dietrich sits on the reel of wire.  He takes out the timing
\par detonator.
\par 
\par With his crimpers he cuts the wire close to the reel leaving
\par plenty of slack.  He strips the end of the wire with
\par deliberation.
\par 
\par Taking the stripped end, he fastens it into the spring loaded
\par terminals by pushing them in, hooking the wire in the notch
\par and releasing them.  The springs slam the terminals tightly
\par against the wires.
\par 
\par INSERT - WATCH
\par 
\par Dietrich looks at his watch for a moment and then back at the
\par timer.
\par 
\par CLOSE UP - THE TIMER
\par 
\par There is a key in the back.  Dietrich winds the key tight.
\par 
\par The dial shows setting up to five hours.  Dietrich pushes in
\par the pointer knob and turns it to one hour.  When it is on the
\par hour he releases it.
\par 
\par The timers makes a loud click and the pointer moves slightly.
\par 
\par The timer is loaded.  It is spring-driven magneto triggered
\par by the timer.  When the pointer is released and meddling with
\par the mechanism will activate the magneto exploding the
\par charges.
\par 
\par Dietrich gingerly sets the timer around behind the girder out
\par of the way.  It makes a second click as he gently sets it
\par down.
\par 
\par SHOT - DIETRICH
\par 
\par Dietrich unties the rope from the girder and reties it in a
\par slip knot.
\par 
\par He takes the free end of the wire from the reel and ties it
\par firmly to the slip knot.
\par 
\par He wraps the free end of the rope around him in a rappel
\par belay.
\par 
\par He edges onto the edge, leaning back against the rope.  He
\par moves to the left to check the timer.  It lets out another
\par satisfying click.
\par 
\par He edges back to the left and swings the reel of wire up over
\par his shoulder with his left hand, all the while keeping
\par tension on the rope and his right hand binding the free end
\par into his chest.
\par 
\par He eases off on the brake hand and slips over the edge.
\par 
\par SHOT - FROM ABOVE - DIETRICH
\par 
\par In short leaps he disappears down into the gorge and the
\par darkness.  The wire unwinds from the reel as he goes.
\par 
\par SHOT - THE DETONATOR
\par 
\par The timer is clicking intermittently.
\par 
\par The rope is taut and then suddenly slack.  Dietrich has
\par reaches the bottom.
\par 
\par The timer clicks again.
\par 
\par Then the wire tightens.  It begins to pull the loop of the
\par slip know down the rope into the gorge, releasing it.
\par 
\par SHOT - DIETRICH - UNDER BRIDGE
\par 
\par Dietrich pulls in the wire and grabs the knot.  The rope
\par falls free in a tangle of coils at his feet.  He unties the
\par wire.
\par 
\par He quickly coils the rope around his arm in rhythmic turns.
\par 
\par He slings it over his shoulder.  Picking up the reel, he
\par hangs the strap over his neck and deliberately winds up the
\par loose wire.
\par 
\par He glances around the area in a final check.  Kicking at a
\par track in the shale, he is finally satisfied.  He and
\par Bruggemann look once more up the cliff at the bridge with
\par satisfaction.
\par 
\par SHOT - UP THE CLIFF TO THE BRIDGE
\par 
\par The bridge hangs overhead like an axe.  The cliff walls seem
\par impossibly straight and foreboding.   
\par    
\par SHOT - THE PATROL   
\par    
\par Kraus has formed up the patrol.  They are waiting anxiously
\par for Dietrich and Bruggemann in the shadows along the edge of
\par the river.
\par 
\par Bruggemann and Dietrich scurry down from the base of the
\par cliff carrying the rope and the reel of wire.
\par 
\par Kraus springs up to meet him.  Everything is haste and
\par excitement now that success and escape are promised.
\par 
\par                      LT. KRAUS
\par           Everything go all right?
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           Like a weekend in the Alps.
\par 
\par SHOT - A DEMO MAN RUNS UP
\par 
\par He stops before the tree officers.
\par 
\par                      DEMO MAN
\par                (desperate)
\par           Excuse me, Lieutenant, but we just
\par           found these two satchel charges.
\par           They must have been mislaid in the
\par           dark.
\par 
\par CLOSE - DIETRICH
\par 
\par He frowns in despair.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par                (in anger)
\par           Who as responsible for that?
\par 
\par                      DEMO MAN
\par           I don't know, sir.
\par 
\par Concentrates as if doing mathematical sums.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           Very well, we'll check into this
\par           later.  You may go.
\par 
\par                      DEMO MAN
\par                (salutes)
\par           Yes, sir.
\par 
\par He exits shot.  The three men stand silently.
\par 
\par                      LT. BRUGGEMANN
\par           What do you think?
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par                (after a moment's pause)
\par           I think we put enough up there to do
\par           the job.
\par 
\par                      LT. BRUGGEMANN
\par           I'm sure we did.
\par 
\par                      LT. KRAUS
\par           Shall I move the men out?
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par                (disgusted with himself)
\par           We'd better.
\par 
\par Kraus makes an arm signal to an NCO.
\par 
\par SHOT - THE REAR GUARD
\par 
\par Several men splash up the edge of the river.  They join the
\par main body.
\par 
\par SHOT - THE MAIN PARTY
\par 
\par The patrol starts to move down stream.  They hug the shadows
\par along the edge of the river.
\par 
\par SHOT - FROM ABOVE
\par 
\par The Germans have cleared the bridge site and have picked up
\par their other flank guards.
\par 
\par SHOT - THE PATROL
\par 
\par Dietrich and Bruggemann are close to the front.  Kraus is in
\par the rear driving the men to keep up.
\par 
\par SHOTS - PATROL
\par 
\par Suddenly an M-1 magazine is emptied at them, shattering the
\par silence.  The rounds smash into the trees and bushes around
\par them.
\par 
\par SHOTS - THE GERMANS DIVE FOR COVER
\par 
\par SHOT - THE DEMO MAN
\par 
\par He is hit and falls screaming and floundering in the stream.
\par 
\par SHOT - DIETRICH
\par 
\par He looks at his scattered patrol with desperation.
\par 
\par SHOT - POV - THE RIVER
\par 
\par In the direction of the shots is a jumble of moonlit shadows.
\par 
\par                      AMERICAN VOICE (O.S.)
\par           Halt!  Who goes there?  Dammit.
\par 
\par There are sounds of more men behind him splashing upstream.
\par 
\par SHOT - THE ADVANCE GERMAN POINT
\par 
\par He tries to run back to the main body and is caught with a
\par BAR burst.
\par 
\par SHOTS - THE GERMANS
\par 
\par They have not returned fire yet, not to give away their
\par positions.
\par 
\par SHOT - KRAUS
\par 
\par Separated from Dietrich and Bruggemann by some forty yards,
\par at the rear of the column, he stands and throws down his SMG.
\par He wades into the river, hands high.
\par 
\par                      LT. KRAUS
\par                (shouting)
\par           Kamerad.
\par 
\par SHOT - SEVERAL MEN NEARBY FOLLOW HIS EXAMPLE
\par 
\par SHOT - BRUGGEMANN
\par 
\par He is enraged at this sight.  He pivots to fire at Kraus and
\par the others surrendering, but Dietrich twists up the gun by
\par pushing down the stock with a blow.  The shots go harmlessly
\par into the air.  Dietrich rises and gestures to the men to pull
\par back.
\par 
\par SHOTS - THE PATROL
\par 
\par In the confusion, the Americans suddenly open fire again.
\par Full, rapid fire from almost a full platoon.  The volume of
\par fire is terrific.
\par 
\par SHOT - DIETRICH
\par 
\par He is hit and crumples in the stream.
\par 
\par SHOT - BRUGGEMANN
\par 
\par He turns and fires a burst at the Americans from his SMG.
\par 
\par SHOTS - THE GERMANS
\par 
\par Seeing Dietrich fall, the remainder of the Germans lose their
\par morale.  As a lull appears in the firing, many shouts of
\par surrender come from the pinned-down patrol.  Then the firing
\par stops completely.  An ominous silence.
\par 
\par LONG SHOT
\par 
\par Three Americans of the advance party move cautiously into
\par view.
\par 
\par                      AMERICAN SOLDIERS
\par           Keep them up, Krauts.  Everybody
\par           stand and throw down your guns.
\par                (various ad libs of same
\par                 as they advance)
\par 
\par SHOTS - THE GERMANS
\par 
\par They slowly stand with their hands raised.
\par 
\par LONG SHOT - GERMAN POV
\par 
\par Behind the advance party of Americans, two more squads
\par advance forward.
\par 
\par                      SOLDIER
\par                (shouting, threatening)
\par           Keep them up, Kraut.  Uppen ze.
\par           Hey, Lieutenant... Look what I got
\par           here.  Uppen ze, Kraut.
\par 
\par LONG SHOT - SURRENDER
\par 
\par The entire patrol is surrounded by Americans pushing up both
\par sides of the river.  The Americans are swarming around them
\par excited by the capture.  Various NCO's are giving orders.  A
\par sergeant and four men are working down the line searching the
\par Germans.
\par 
\par                                              DISSOLVE TO:
\par 
\par TWO SHOT - WOUNDED AMERICAN CAPTAIN & HIS LIEUTENANT
\par 
\par The Captain is painfully but not seriously wounded in the
\par arm.
\par 
\par                      LIEUTENANT
\par           How are those wounds, sir.
\par 
\par                      CAPTAIN JONES
\par                (irritated)
\par           How the hell do you think they are.
\par           They hurt like hell.  Did you check
\par           the base of the cliffs and the span?
\par 
\par                      LIEUTENANT
\par           We looked it all up and down,
\par           Captain.  Not a damn thing.
\par 
\par                      CAPTAIN JONES
\par                (grunting)
\par           Yeah.  How's Anderson.
\par 
\par                      LIEUTENANT
\par                (grimly)
\par           Dead.
\par 
\par                      CAPTAIN JONES
\par                (angrily)
\par           Well the makes two, Anderson and
\par           Shrewsberry, that got it on this
\par           damn hacked up patrol.
\par                (he spits in grim disgust)
\par           Let's go question that Kraut
\par           lieutenant.
\par 
\par They turn and walk off.
\par 
\par SHOT - DIETRICH & THE MEDIC
\par 
\par He is wounded in the arm and shoulder.
\par 
\par Kraus is standing nearby.
\par 
\par The two American officers come up.  The medic has finished
\par his bandaging and gets up.  He shrugs his shoulders at
\par inquiring looks from the officers.  The captain squats down
\par by Dietrich.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par                (engagingly)
\par           I'm sorry to see you are wounded,
\par           Captain.
\par 
\par                      CAPTAIN JONES
\par                (coldly)
\par           Sorry I can't say the same thing,
\par           Lieutenant.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           That is your privilege, Captain.
\par 
\par                      CAPTAIN JONES
\par           Okay, Krauthead, let's skip the
\par           bull.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           Pardon me?
\par 
\par                      CAPTAIN JONES
\par           Let's get to the facts!
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           Of course, Lieutenant Paul Dietrich,
\par           serial number 542 --
\par 
\par                      CAPTAIN JONES
\par                (interrupting)
\par           Skip that -- what were you doing
\par           down here?
\par 
\par Dietrich thinks for a moment.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par                (as if telling as
\par                 important secret)
\par           We were trying to kidnap General
\par           Eisenhower.
\par 
\par                      CAPTAIN JONES
\par                (steaming)
\par           Was it just a coincidence we found
\par           two explosive packs near the bridge?
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           We were going to blow him up.
\par 
\par                      CAPTAIN JONES
\par                (grabs Dietrich's shirt)
\par           Don't get fancy with me, Krauthead!
\par                (simmers down)
\par           You were after the bridge, weren't
\par           you?
\par 
\par Dietrich feigns shock and surprise, lets the idea knock
\par around for a couple of beats, then smiles submissively.
\par 
\par                      DIETRICH
\par           What does it matter now?
\par                (sighs)
\par           We were after the bridge.
\par 
\par                      CAPTAIN JONES
\par                (triumphantly)
\par           I thought so!
\par                (he exchanges a
\par                 significant glance with
\par                 his lieutenant)
\par           Listen, did you actually think you
\par           could do it with those two charges?
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           I beg your pardon, sir.  But those
\par           explosive packs are a new plastic
\par           type equal to ten times their size
\par           in normal explosives.
\par 
\par                      CAPTAIN JONES
\par                (sarcastic)
\par           Funny I hadn't heard of that.
\par                (shrugs noncommittally)
\par           Tell me, thought, did you actually
\par           think you could scale those cliff
\par           walls in the dark?
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           Our intelligence was misinformed.
\par           We didn't realize until we got here
\par           that it was impossible.
\par 
\par Captain Jones frowns for a couple of beats then stands
\par wearily.
\par 
\par                      CAPTAIN JONES
\par           Okay, lieutenant, you've been very
\par           cooperative.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           Why not sir.  My silence will not
\par           win the war for us.  What does it
\par           matter now?  You do not understand
\par           us.  We are a reasonable people.
\par 
\par The captain and the lieutenant walk a few steps away.
\par 
\par                      CAPTAIN JONES
\par           It's going to take me a little time
\par           until I get used to the new model
\par           talkative Kraut type.
\par 
\par                      LIEUTENANT
\par           You can have 'em all, sir.
\par 
\par                      CAPTAIN JONES
\par                (laughs)
\par           Okay, let's move 'em out and get
\par           these supermen topside.
\par 
\par                                              DISSOLVE TO:
\par 
\par EXT.  STEEP PATH ZIG-ZAGGING UP CLIFF, BRIDGE IN B.G. - NIGHT
\par 
\par Guarded by the American patrol, the captured Germans are
\par herded up the path, about 100 yards away from the bridge.
\par Many of the prisoners stumble due to the awkward way they
\par have to climb -- hands clasped over heads.
\par 
\par                                              DISSOLVE TO:
\par 
\par ESTABLISHING SHOTS - TOP OF BRIDGE - NIGHT
\par 
\par The bridge is intermittently jammed with convoys inching
\par across the span with supplies, troops, motorized artillery
\par and tanks.
\par 
\par Many vehicles of all types are parked on the side of the
\par road, as far as the eye can see, waiting for higher priority
\par cargoes to cross.
\par 
\par Several harried MP's direct the traffic.  They are
\par constantly abused by the drivers and the men in the trucks
\par held up along the road.  They curse back.
\par 
\par On one side of the road is a small complex of tents.  Several
\par close to the bridge are MP billets and headquarters.
\par 
\par Several more farther back on the edge of a small field are
\par the headquarters company of the engineer battalion
\par maintaining the bridge and the roads.
\par 
\par The road is cut into a quagmire.  The passage of tanks have
\par torn off the asphalt surface.  The trucks have rutted the
\par under surface.
\par 
\par The field near the tents is cut and recut with a criss-cross
\par of truck tracks.  All vegetation has been smashed flat.
\par 
\par Several trucks and jeeps are parked haphazardly near the
\par tents.
\par 
\par Off farther camouflaged by nets.  Three flak wagons are
\par dispersed to protect the bridge from non-existent German
\par aircraft.  There are no gunners in sight.
\par 
\par SHOT - THE PRISONERS
\par 
\par The detail of prisoners and guards, clear the top of the
\par cliff across the field about two hundred yards from the
\par tents; they slowly slog across the muddy field.
\par 
\par The Germans are a bedraggled bunch.  Their uniforms are
\par filthy from the patrol and they are unshaven.  The camouflage
\par paint streaks their face and rims their eyes like weird
\par makeup.
\par 
\par Their pants flop out of their boots and here and there a few
\par pieces of the tape still flap around adding to the effect.
\par 
\par Their tunics have been ripped open and their pistol belts
\par have been removed.
\par 
\par SHOT - THE GUARDS & THE PRISONERS
\par 
\par They near the tents.  A gesture from a guard halts them.
\par 
\par                      GUARD
\par                (shouts)
\par           Sitten ze here.
\par 
\par The Germans look dumbly at him and then at the mud.
\par 
\par He gestures threateningly with his carbine and they get the
\par idea.  They flop in the mud.
\par 
\par SHOT - DIETRICH, BRUGGEMANN & KRAUS
\par 
\par They drift together, unobtrusively and talk in whispers.
\par 
\par                      LT. BRUGGEMANN
\par                (whisper)
\par           How much time to go?
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par                (whisper)
\par           About ten minutes.
\par 
\par                      LT. KRAUS
\par           At least we ought to warn them to
\par           clear the bridge.
\par 
\par                      LT. BRUGGEMANN
\par           If we do that they can send someone
\par           down to disconnect the charges.
\par 
\par Dietrich does not even appear to be listening.
\par 
\par                      LT. KRAUS
\par           I still think we should warn them.
\par 
\par                                              DISSOLVE TO:
\par 
\par EXT.  COMPLEX OF TENTS - DOLLY IN ON "HEADQUARTERS TENT" -
\par NIGHT
\par 
\par Captain Jones enters.
\par 
\par INT.  TENT - CAPTAIN JONES & MAJOR SULLIVAN - NIGHT
\par 
\par The major is a typical rear echelon officer.  Probably a
\par business executive in peacetime.  He is out of his element in
\par a situation like this.
\par 
\par Captain Jones salutes and takes his helmet off wearily with
\par his unbandaged arm.
\par 
\par                      MAJOR SULLIVAN
\par                (pointing to his wound)
\par           Say, what happened there, Bill?
\par 
\par                      CAPTAIN JONES
\par           Nothing much.  I'll go back to the
\par           battalion aid station later.
\par 
\par                      MAJOR SULLIVAN
\par           You should watch out for that.
\par           Could get infected.
\par 
\par                      CAPTAIN JONES
\par           Sure, sure, I'll take care of it.
\par 
\par Jones takes a couple of good swallows from a whiskey bottle.
\par 
\par                      MAJOR SULLIVAN
\par           Lieutenant Powers just briefed me.
\par           You'll probably get the bronze star
\par           for this one.  Nineteen prisoners.
\par           Imagine, they tried to blow up this
\par           bridge!
\par 
\par                      CAPTAIN JONES
\par           That's what the big cheese
\par           lieutenant said.  But, you know,
\par           there was something fishy about that
\par           guy.
\par 
\par                      MAJOR SULLIVAN
\par           There's something fishy about all
\par           those guys.
\par 
\par                      CAPTAIN JONES
\par                (shrugs)
\par           Yeah, but this one was special.
\par 
\par                      MAJOR SULLIVAN
\par                (doesn't take it
\par                 seriously)
\par           You mean you think they might have
\par           already wired the bridge?
\par 
\par                      CAPTAIN JONES
\par           I don't think it's possible -- and
\par           yet --
\par 
\par                      MAJOR SULLIVAN
\par           Lieutenant Powers said you found the
\par           explosive.
\par 
\par                      CAPTAIN JONES
\par           We found two packs which they claim
\par           was some new powerful stuff big
\par           enough to do the job --
\par 
\par                      MAJOR SULLIVAN
\par                (completing the thought)
\par           But maybe it was just left over from
\par           what they wired into the bridge.
\par 
\par Captain Jones shrugs.  There is a pause as both men consider
\par the possibilities.
\par 
\par                      CAPTAIN JONES
\par           Our engineers claim a fly couldn't
\par           crawl up those cliffs at night --
\par           and yet you can't be sure.
\par 
\par                      MAJOR SULLIVAN
\par                (unconvinced)
\par           Do you realize what you're saying?
\par 
\par                      CAPTAIN JONES
\par           It's just a hunch.
\par 
\par                      MAJOR SULLIVAN
\par           Well, why not interrogate again?
\par 
\par                      CAPTAIN JONES
\par                (nodding)
\par           I think I'll do that... but first I
\par           think we ought to stop the traffic
\par           over the bridge.
\par 
\par                      MAJOR SULLIVAN
\par           What?!  I can't do that on a hunch!
\par           Why, do you realize the schedule
\par           I've got to keep up.  We're ten
\par           hours behind already.  The colonel
\par           will be on my tail for a month if I
\par           ever closed the bridge on some wild
\par           scare.
\par 
\par                      CAPTAIN JONES
\par           After what's happened, just think
\par           where you'll be if that damn bridge
\par           blows up lined with trucks wheel to
\par           wheel.
\par 
\par Major Sullivan rocks on his heels, thoughtfully.
\par 
\par                      MAJOR SULLIVAN
\par           You're right.  You're absolutely
\par           right!  The lives of those men are
\par           much more important than any
\par           schedule.
\par                (pause)
\par           But I'll only stop it for a few
\par           minutes.  Long enough to talk to
\par           those prisoners again.
\par 
\par                                              DISSOLVE TO:
\par 
\par SHOT - GERMAN PRISONERS & GUARDS - FAVORING DIETRICH, KRAUS &
\par BRUGGEMANN
\par 
\par                      LT. BRUGGEMANN
\par                (whispered)
\par           How much time now?
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par                (glances at his watch
\par                 indifferently)
\par           Any second now -- less than a
\par           minute.
\par 
\par Kraus watches with a horrible fascination.
\par 
\par SHOT - THE BRIDGE
\par 
\par Three MP's come running out on the surfaced road blowing
\par whistles and flagging the drivers down.  The trucks already
\par on the bridge are speeded forward.  The other are stopped and
\par backed away from the span.
\par 
\par SHOT - DIETRICH & CO.
\par 
\par                      LT. KRAUS
\par                (relieved)
\par           They're stopping the trucks!  They
\par           must have found out.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           Impossible!  How could they know?
\par 
\par                      LT. BRUGGEMANN
\par           What's the difference?  How much
\par           time?
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           Any second.
\par 
\par SHOT - THE BRIDGE
\par 
\par The trucks have been backed away from the bridge surface and
\par the last vehicles are inching clear on the other side.  There
\par is considerable confusion and yelling going on.  MP's are
\par blowing whistles and shouting.
\par 
\par                      LT. BRUGGEMANN
\par                (hoarse whisper)
\par           It's late!  Dammit, it's late!
\par 
\par                      LT. KRAUS
\par                (whisper)
\par           Maybe the firing mechanism is
\par           defective.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par                (whisper)
\par           Impossible.  It's foolproof.  I know
\par           these timers, they can be late but
\par           they always fire.
\par 
\par                      LT. BRUGGEMANN
\par           Maybe we didn't wire it properly.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           Don't worry.  I checked everything.
\par           It will go off.  It's only late.
\par 
\par                      LT. KRAUS
\par           Look, two officers coming over.
\par 
\par                      LT. BRUGGEMANN
\par           Keep your mouth shut!
\par 
\par SHOT - CAPTAIN JONES & MAJOR SULLIVAN
\par 
\par Accept the salute of the guards and walk in among the
\par prisoners, stopping at Dietrich.  The Germans remain seated
\par on the ground.
\par 
\par                      GUARD
\par           Okay, you guys, everyone on their
\par           feet.  Uppen ze on ze feets.
\par 
\par Slowly the men stand, nudging those who are uncompliant.
\par 
\par                      CAPTAIN JONES
\par                (to Dietrich)
\par           Lieutenant, we know the bridge is
\par           wired and ready to go.  I want one
\par           of your men to volunteer to climb
\par           down with some of our engineers to
\par           show them where you placed the
\par           detonator.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par                (hesitates then smiles)
\par           I'm sorry, sir.  But I must claim my
\par           privilege to refuse that order under
\par           the prisoners rights section of the
\par           Articles of War.
\par 
\par                      CAPTAIN JONES
\par           Then you admit the bridge is unsafe?
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           Captain, the bridge is perfectly
\par           safe.  I simply cannot allow my men
\par           to risk falling off the
\par           superstructure in the dark.
\par 
\par                      CAPTAIN JONES
\par                (to Kraus)
\par           What have you got to say?
\par 
\par                      LT. KRAUS
\par                (quickly)
\par           I agree with Lieutenant Dietrich,
\par           sir.
\par 
\par                      CAPTAIN JONES
\par                (to Bruggemann)
\par           And I suppose you do too.
\par 
\par                      LT. BRUGGEMANN
\par           Naturally, sir.
\par 
\par Major Sullivan takes Captain Jones' arm, and they walk out of
\par the prisoners' earshot.  Captain Jones is fuming in anger.
\par 
\par                      MAJOR SULLIVAN
\par           Listen, we're not going to get
\par           anywhere with you blowing your top.
\par           He is within his rights to refuse
\par           your order.
\par 
\par                      CAPTAIN JONES
\par           Rights?  Why he's lucky to be alive.
\par 
\par                      MAJOR SULLIVAN
\par           Sure, Bill.  But blowing your top is
\par           not going to solve our problem.  Why
\par           don't we just send some of our
\par           engineers down for a look?  I don't
\par           know how long I can keep this bridge
\par           closed.
\par 
\par                      CAPTAIN JONES
\par           That's kind of a tough thing to ask
\par           in the dark.  And my guess is if
\par           they have wired the bridge they
\par           wouldn't time it to go off much
\par           later than one hour.  That would put
\par           it right about now.
\par 
\par Major Sullivan nods his head slowly and sighs.
\par 
\par                      CAPTAIN JONES
\par           Listen, I've got one more idea that
\par           should prove this thing either way.
\par 
\par SHOT - FROM THE PRISONER'S POV
\par 
\par Captain Jones walks to guard and says something unheard.
\par 
\par SHOT - THE PRISONERS TRY TO APPEAR AS NONCHALANT AS POSSIBLE
\par 
\par SHOT - THE GUARD NODS TO CAPTAIN JONES AND WALKS TO THE
\par PRISONERS
\par 
\par                      GUARD
\par           Okay, Lieutenant.  Have your men
\par           follow me.
\par 
\par The other guards form around the prisoners, keeping them
\par covered with carbines.
\par 
\par SHOT - CAPTAIN JONES & MAJOR SULLIVAN WATCH CLOSELY
\par 
\par SHOT - DIETRICH, HESITATES THEN GIVES APPROPRIATE ORDERS
\par 
\par SHOTS - THE PRISONERS ARE MARCHED PAST THE PARKED VEHICLES TO
\par THE BRIDGE
\par 
\par SHOTS - CURIOUS G.I.'S MAKE WISECRACKS AS THEY PASS BY
\par 
\par SHOT - MAJOR SULLIVAN & CAPTAIN JONES FOLLOW
\par 
\par SHOT - THE PRISONERS ARE HALTED 10 YARDS FROM THE BRIDGE
\par 
\par SHOT - CAPTAIN JONES, BRIDGE IN B.G.
\par 
\par He steps up to Dietrich and cocks his head.
\par 
\par                      CAPTAIN JONES
\par           Okay, lieutenant, now I have an
\par           order for you that is not within
\par           your privilege under the Articles of
\par           War to refuse.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           I am at your service, sir.
\par 
\par                      CAPTAIN JONES
\par           You understand we are going to send
\par           you back to prisoner of war camps?
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           Yes, sir.
\par 
\par                      CAPTAIN JONES
\par           You understand that prisoners are
\par           often driven back in trucks?
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           That's really service, sir.  We
\par           expected to walk.
\par 
\par                      CAPTAIN JONES
\par           No, you'll be driven in nice, new,
\par           comfortable trucks.  But we have a
\par           system here for doing things.  You
\par           have systems too in the German army,
\par           don't you?
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           Certainly, sir.
\par 
\par                      CAPTAIN JONES
\par           Well, our system is that the
\par           prisoners assemble in the middle of
\par           the bridge to wait for pick up by
\par           truck.
\par 
\par Captain Jones looks closely but sees nothing he can put his
\par finger on.
\par 
\par                      CAPTAIN JONES
\par           We even trust you enough to let you
\par           march your men out there without a
\par           guard.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par                (stalling for time)
\par           I'm not sure I understand what you
\par           want me to do.
\par 
\par                      CAPTAIN JONES
\par           It's very simple.  Just march your
\par           men out to the middle of the bridge.
\par           Stop them there.  And wait for the
\par           truck to come by and load you in.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           Come, come, sir.  This is all really
\par           rather childish, isn't it?
\par 
\par                      CAPTAIN JONES
\par                (explodes)
\par           A prisoner of war refusing an order
\par           may be shot on the spot.  I order
\par           you to march your men out to the
\par           center of the bridge to await
\par           transportation.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           Certainly, sir.  I have no intention
\par           of refusing your order.
\par 
\par SHOT - DIETRICH
\par 
\par He turns to face his men.  His features have grown iron hard.
\par His voice is sharp and merciless.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           Men, we are going to be loaded into
\par           trucks.  Form up in a column of twos
\par           and on the command follow me!
\par 
\par SHOTS - THE MEN STARE VACANTLY AT DIETRICH
\par 
\par SHOT - DIETRICH GIVES THE COMMAND TO MARCH
\par 
\par CLOSE - KRAUS
\par 
\par He appears to be almost in an hypnotic trance as he obeys.
\par 
\par LONG SHOT - THE BRIDGE
\par 
\par Nineteen Germans march onto the span.
\par 
\par The scene almost has the appearance of a sporting event.
\par Spectators drawn up at either end.  The roadway of the bridge
\par deserted.
\par 
\par FOLLOW SHOT - THE GERMANS
\par 
\par Dietrich is calling out the equivalent of our cadence count.
\par The men appear nervous but under control.  Bruggemann has
\par assumed a grim but determined expression.
\par 
\par FOLLOW SHOT - FAVORING DIETRICH
\par 
\par As they draw away from earshot of the Americans, he begins
\par talking softly to the men.  His eyes are bright, and his face
\par assumes an eerie kind of intensity.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par                (hypnotic and powerful)
\par           You are all probably thinking the
\par           bridge may go up any second.  It
\par           could but I don't think it will.
\par           When those timing detonators are
\par           late they are usually much later
\par           than this one is now.  If we refuse
\par           to stand on this bridge for a few
\par           minutes they will know what we did
\par           and immediately send some engineers
\par           down to find the detonator.  They
\par           may find it in time and all our work
\par           will have been in vain.
\par 
\par SHOTS - THE MEN'S FACES
\par 
\par Dietrich's words are not without effect.
\par 
\par SHOT - KRAUS SWEATING
\par 
\par FOLLOW SHOT - FAVORING DIETRICH
\par 
\par They are almost to the middle.  The tension shows everywhere.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           We have a nice crowd of spectators.
\par           We'll show them what a German
\par           soldier is made of.  Don't worry,
\par           the Americans won't keep us here
\par           very long.  They're not really sure
\par           the bridge is wired, and this will
\par           prove it to them.
\par 
\par They reach the center of the bridge.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           Now I want all of you to find a
\par           place to sit comfortably.  I want
\par           you to find positions that look like
\par           you're out for a Sunday picnic.
\par           Some one of you lean over the rail.
\par                (gesturing)
\par           Four of you sit down and play cards.
\par                (pointing)
\par           The rest stand in groups of two or
\par           three chatting.
\par 
\par SHOT - SEVERAL MEN LEAN CASUALLY OVER THE RAIL, THEIR FACES
\par PALE
\par 
\par SHOT - FOUR MEN TAKE OUT A PACK OF CARDS AND BEGIN PLAYING,
\par GROTESQUE FEAR ON THEIR FACES
\par 
\par SHOT - THREE MORE LEAN BACK AGAINST A GIRDER, ARMS FOLDED
\par 
\par SHOT - DIETRICH SITS ON THE RAIL AND CROSSES HIS LEGS.  HE
\par ALONE SEEMS CALM AND COLLECTED
\par 
\par SHOT - KRAUS TREMBLES
\par 
\par SHOT - SEVERAL OF THE OTHER MEN CAN BARELY KEEP FROM RUNNING
\par OFF THE BRIDGE
\par 
\par SHOT - CAPTAIN JONES & MAJOR SULLIVAN
\par 
\par They watch what from their distance appears to be a super
\par casual lounging about.  The Germans look as indifferent as
\par they could be -- at that distance.
\par 
\par SHOT- DIETRICH, HIS LEGS CROSSED
\par 
\par He notices the men beginning to crack.  Despite the casual
\par poses they have assumed, their faces betray the ever
\par increasing panic and unbearable tension.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           Boys, we've been through a lot of
\par           tight spots together.  This will be
\par           the last one, either way.  The war
\par           is over and what the hell are we
\par           going to do with ourselves anyway?
\par           This moment will last you all your
\par           lives.  You will tell your
\par           grandchildren about it, and they
\par           will tell theirs.  At this moment we
\par           are living like a few men have ever
\par           lived.  A man can almost thank God
\par           he has a moment like this.
\par 
\par SHOTS - THE MEN'S FACES WHILE DIETRICH HAS BEEN SPEAKING
\par 
\par As he speaks, their faces began to glow with a weird kind of
\par enthusiasm and deeply stirred emotion, seldom seen.
\par 
\par CAPTAIN JONES & MAJOR SULLIVAN BACK FROM THE BRIDGE
\par 
\par Major Sullivan is visibly relaxed and has a kind of relieved
\par smile.
\par 
\par                      MAJOR SULLIVAN
\par           Well, Bill, I guess this wraps it
\par           up.  Let's get things moving again.
\par           The trucks are really piling up.
\par 
\par                      CAPTAIN JONES
\par           One last thing.  I want to see how
\par           they come back.
\par 
\par He walks up to the entrance of the bridge and waves Dietrich
\par back.  He cups his hand to his mouth.
\par 
\par                      CAPTAIN JONES
\par                (to Dietrich)
\par           All right, Lieutenant, bring your
\par           men back.
\par 
\par SHOT - DIETRICH WAVES RECOGNITION OF THE COMMAND
\par 
\par SHOTS - THE MEN SEEM TO SUDDENLY PANIC AT THE THOUGHT OF
\par SAFETY
\par 
\par SHOT - FAVORING DIETRICH
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           Keep quiet.  Don't move.  I want no
\par           hurrying.  We will form up just as
\par           we came out.  You will follow my
\par           tempo.  When we get off the bridge
\par           make no comments, no sighs of
\par           relief.  Nothing to indicate
\par           anything out of the ordinary.
\par 
\par The men form a column.  Dietrich orders them forward.
\par 
\par FOLLOW SHOT - FAVORING DIETRICH - WALKING AT EVEN TEMPO
\par 
\par The men seem almost unable to contain themselves.  The
\par impulse to run to safety is almost irresistible.  Seeing this
\par Dietrich plays his last gambit.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par           We're going to sing a song.
\par 
\par CLOSE - DIETRICH BEGINS TO SING A STIRRING GERMAN MARCHING
\par SONG
\par 
\par CLOSE - KRAUS TRIES TO GET SOME SOUND OUT BUT BARELY MOVES
\par HIS LIPS
\par 
\par CLOSE - BRUGGEMANN JOINS IN A LOUD VOICE
\par 
\par SHOTS - DIFFERENT MEN AS THEY JOIN IN AND SING
\par 
\par LONG SHOT - OVER CAPTAIN JONES & MAJOR SULLIVAN
\par 
\par They watch the column of Germans marching towards them, still
\par about 150 feet from the edge of the bridge.  They appear very
\par normal at that distance.
\par 
\par SHOT - DIETRICH SINGING LOUDLY
\par 
\par SHOT - KRAUS MANAGES TO GET SOME SOUND OUT AND LOOKS PROUD
\par 
\par SHOTS - THE OTHERS BEGIN TO SING WITH SOME HEART AS THEY NEAR
\par THE EDGE OF THE BRIDGE
\par 
\par SUBJECTIVE SHOT - FROM THE GERMANS' POV
\par 
\par The remaining 75 feet of the bridge rolls past and we see the
\par shapes of the G.I.'s and the two officers grow larger.  They
\par watch with curiosity.
\par 
\par LONG SHOT - THE GERMANS REACH THE END OF THE BRIDGE AND KEEP
\par GOING FOR ABOUT FIFTEEN YARDS.  DIETRICH STOPS THEM.  THEY DO
\par NOT REVEAL THEIR RELIEF.  THEY ARE CLEAR OF THE BRIDGE
\par 
\par SHOT - CAPTAIN JONES & MAJOR SULLIVAN WALK TO THE GERMAN
\par PRISONERS
\par 
\par SHOT - DIETRICH SMILES INDIFFERENTLY
\par 
\par CLOSE - CAPTAIN JONES - AS HE STARTS TO SPEAK HIS FACE IS
\par SUDDENLY BATHED IN A BRILLIANT GLARE
\par 
\par QUICK CUT - THE BRIDGE AS THE CHARGES EXPLODE UNDER THE
\par ABUTMENT
\par 
\par QUICK CUT - DIETRICH HAS A WIDE EYED TRIUMPHANT STARE
\par 
\par QUICK CUT - FROM BELOW THE BRIDGE, ONE SIDE OF THE SUPPORT
\par CRUMBLES AS IF IN SLOW MOTION
\par 
\par QUICK CUT - THE SURFACE OF THE BRIDGE LAZILY CURLS AWAY FROM
\par THE EDGE OF THE CLIFF
\par 
\par QUICK CUT - FROM BELOW, ONE END OF THE SPAN HURTLES DOWN INTO
\par THE GORGE, TEARING HUGE HUNKS OUT OF THE CLIFF SIDE
\par 
\par SHOT - FROM BEHIND THE PRISONERS AND CAPTAIN JONES, THERE IS
\par SUDDENLY A YAWNING GAP WHERE THE ROAD SURFACE STOOD.  SMOKE
\par AND DUST RISE FROM THE RAVINE
\par 
\par VARIOUS SHOTS - NOBODY SEEMS TO MOVE.  ALL STAND PERFECTLY
\par STILL AS THOUGH WITNESSING SOME AWESOME SPECTACLE OF NATURE
\par 
\par CLOSE - DIETRICH AS HE LOOKS INTO THE SMOKING ABYSS
\par 
\par The flame of excitement flickers out and is slowly replaced
\par by an expression that can only be described as one of
\par infinite sadness and nostalgia.  The camera holds a long time
\par on his face.  It is almost like witnessing the death of a
\par friend.
\par 
\par                                            SLOW FADE OUT.
\par 
\par SLOW FADE IN:
\par 
\par LONG SHOT - A BUSY STREET IN A LARGE GERMAN CITY
\par 
\par TITLE:  "10 YEARS LATER"
\par 
\par                                              DISSOLVE TO:
\par 
\par EXTREME CLOSE SHOT - A MAN'S HAND IS RUBBER-STAMPING A LARGE
\par STACK OF MAIL.  HIS OTHER HAND DEFTLY FLICKS OFF THE TOP
\par ENVELOPE EXPOSING THE NEXT.  THE STAMP AS A "THUMP" "THUMP"
\par RHYTHM.
\par 
\par CAMERA PULLS BACK - AND WE SEE THE BACK OF THE MAN SEATED AT
\par A LARGE MAIL TABLE.  IN THE BACKGROUND WE SEE THE HUSTLE AND
\par CLATTER OF A POST OFFICE.  THE MAN'S RHYTHM SLOWS DOWN SO
\par THAT THE "THUMP" SOUNDS GRADUALLY CEASE ALTOGETHER.
\par 
\par                      MAN'S VOICE (O.S.)
\par           Hurry up with those letters.  The
\par           four o'clock truck is here soon.
\par 
\par The man at the table turns around and we see it is Dietrich.
\par He looks less healthy and puffier.  He is neatly but shabbily
\par dressed.
\par 
\par                      LT. DIETRICH
\par                (smiles respectfully)
\par           Excuse me, Herr Bauer.
\par 
\par He turns wearily back and resumes his work, "Thump", "Thump".
\par 
\par CLOSE - DIETRICH
\par 
\par He looks down at the pile of work and sighs.  He resumes the
\par monotonous pattern of his work.  We hold on him doing this
\par for a long time.  The sounds of the post office swirl around
\par him.
\par 
\par He tries to concentrate on the work, pushing away a finished
\par stack of envelopes and reaching for another.  As he begins
\par the next stack his mind begins to wander again.  The stamping
\par rhythm slows down.
\par 
\par Gradually, the stamping stops completely.  His thoughts are
\par far away.  His face assumes the same expression of nostalgia
\par and melancholy we saw at the last moments of the bridge
\par scene.  He is thinking about that bridge again.
\par 
\par The sounds of the post office fade down until they are barely
\par a murmur.  THE SOUND TRACK slowly begins to fill with the
\par sound of his men's voices singing the marching song they sang
\par walking off the bridge.  The sound slowly fills the screen.
\par We hold on his face for a long, long time.
\par 
\par                                            SLOW FADE OUT.
\par }}